# Visual Adversarial Examples Jailbreak Large Language Models

- **arXiv:** 2307.02533
- **Abs URL:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.02533
- **PDF URL:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.02533

---

arXiv:2307.02533v2 [hep-ph] 15 Mar 2024

Correlations of C and CP violation in η → π 0ℓ+ℓ−
and η ′ → ηℓ+ℓ−

Hakan Akdag,a Bastian Kubis,a and Andreas Wirzbab
a

Helmholtz-Institut für Strahlen- und Kernphysik (Theorie) and
Bethe Center for Theoretical Physics, Universität Bonn, 53115 Bonn, Germany
b
Institut für Kernphysik (Theorie), Institute for Advanced Simulation, and
Jülich Center for Hadron Physics, Forschungszentrum Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany

E-mail: akdag@hiskp.uni-bonn.de, kubis@hiskp.uni-bonn.de,
a.wirzba@fz-juelich.de
Abstract: Based on recent progress in the systematic analysis of C and CP violation
in the light-meson sector, we calculate the C-odd transition amplitudes η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− and
η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− . Focusing on long-distance contributions driven by the lowest-lying hadronic
intermediate states, we work out the correlations between these beyond-the-Standard-Model
signals and the Dalitz-plot asymmetries in η → π 0 π + π − and η ′ → ηπ + π − , using dispersion
theory.

Contents
1 Introduction
2 Phenomenology
2.1 Kinematics
2.2 Direct semi-leptonic contributions to X → Y ℓ+ ℓ−
2.3 Direct photonic contributions to X → Y γ ∗
2.4 Hadronic long-range effects
2.5 Discussion
4
7
11

3 Hadronic long-range effects: the isovector contribution
3.1 The dispersive C- and CP -odd X → Y π + π − partial-wave amplitude
3.2 Computation of the isovector form factor X → Y γ ∗
3.3 Resonance couplings from analytic continuation
12
17

4 Hadronic long-range effects: the isoscalar contribution
4.1 η → πℓ+ ℓ−
4.2 η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ−
21
5 Results
5.1 η → πℓ+ ℓ−
5.2 η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ−
23
6 Summary and outlook
1

Introduction

In the recent past new light was shed on analyzing patterns of C- and CP -odd signals in
hadronic decays concerning the η-sector. First, Ref. [1] provided a new theoretical framework for C violation in η → π 0 π + π − , which was neglected since the 1960s and allows
one to decompose the decay amplitude into contributions of different isospin transitions,
hence to disentangle the underlying beyond-the-Standard-Model (BSM) operators of isospin
I = 0 and I = 2. This analysis has been improved and extended to η ′ → π 0 π + π − as well
as η ′ → ηπ + π − in Refs. [2, 3], which relied on the dispersion-theoretical Khuri–Treiman
framework. Motivated by these analyses, Ref. [4] derived the full set of C- and CP -violating
quark-level operators for flavor-conserving, lepton- and baryon-number-preserving transitions in the low-energy effective field theory (LEFT) and matched them onto a T -odd and
P -even (ToPe) analog of chiral perturbation theory (ToPeχPT) (cf. also Refs. [5, 6]). The
latter allows us to access all corresponding C- and CP -odd mesonic interactions.

–1–

branching ratio

SM prediction [17]

experimental limit

B(η → π 0 e+ e− )

1.36(15) × 10−9

< 7.5 × 10−6 [21]

B(η → π 0 µ+ µ− )

0.67(7) × 10−9

< 5 × 10−6 [19]

B(η ′ → π 0 e+ e− )

3.30(28) × 10−9

< 1.4 × 10−3 [20]

B(η ′ → π 0 µ+ µ− )

1.81(16) × 10−9

< 6 × 10−5 [19]

B(η ′ → ηe+ e− )

0.50(4) × 10−9

< 2.4 × 10−3 [20]

B(η ′ → ηµ+ µ− )

0.240(21) × 10−9

< 1.5 × 10−5 [19]

Table 1: Standard-Model predictions for dilepton branching ratios based on the C-even
two-photon mechanism [17], as well as corresponding experimental upper limits. Note that
below only the cases η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− and η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− will be considered further.
One may use the formalisms addressed in the previous paragraph to investigate the
correlation of T -odd and P -even forces between different decays. In this sense we consider
C- and CP -violating radiative decays of η and η ′ . In the following, we denote both mesons
with η (′) . Given that η (′) as well as π 0 have the eigenvalue C = +1 but photons have
C = −1, C is violated in general if η (′) decays into an arbitrary number of uncharged pions
and an odd number of photons. This consideration also holds for radiative decays of the
η ′ into an η. In the following we will focus on the radiative C-odd decays η → π 0 γ (∗)
and η ′ → ηγ (∗) . To shorten the notation we will refer to both processes collectively by
X → Y γ (∗) . Angular momentum conservation demands the final state to be in a relative
P -wave. Consequently, parity is conserved and the decays at hand additionally violate CP ,
thus offering an opportunity to investigate ToPe forces. The decay into a real, transverse
photon violates both gauge invariance and the conservation of angular momentum [7, 8].
Therefore, the focus shall be laid on X → Y γ ∗ → Y ℓ+ ℓ− , where the off-shell photon decays
subsequently into a pair of charged leptons. At the theoretical front, the investigation of
this BSM one-photon exchange urgently requires an update [9, 10] in comparison to analyses
of the SM contribution, cf. Refs. [11–17], as well as studies of other BSM effects in these
decays [8, 18]. From an experimental point of view, bounds on all the leptonic channels have
already been set [19–21] and may become more stringent in future measurements [22–28].
We summarize the currently most stringent experimental upper bounds on the X →
+
Y ℓ ℓ− branching ratios in Table 1, and contrast them with the corresponding SM predictions based on the C-conserving two-photon mechanism [17]. We observe that those
predictions are below the current limits by large factors, between 5 × 103 (for η → π 0 e+ e− )
and 5 × 106 (for η ′ → ηe+ e− ). We will therefore perform the analysis in the following in
the spirit that we assume the SM contribution to be small, and any observable or observed
signal to be a sign of a C-odd single-photon mechanism.1 Note furthermore that C-even
Similarly, we disregard other potential BSM effects, such as of CP -even weakly coupled scalars; see,
e.g., Ref. [8] and references therein.

–2–

and C-odd amplitudes cannot interfere on the level of the branching ratio; such interference
effects could only induce Dalitz-plot asymmetries (cf. Refs. [1–3]), which would only be sizable if both amplitudes are of comparable magnitude. We therefore refrain from discussing
such interference effects in any detail.
We emphasize the special role of CP violation in flavor-conserving transitions such as
all η and η ′ decays discussed here. In contrast to similar kaon decays K → πℓ+ ℓ− [29, 30],
SM CP -odd contributions induced by the weak interactions are very strongly suppressed,
as any weak phase cancels at one loop, and any such contribution only depends on the
squared moduli of the Cabibbo–Kobayashi–Maskawa (CKM) matrix elements. This is not
unlike the situation for electric dipole moments of nucleons, which are considered quasi-free
of any CKM-matrix-induced SM background [31–34].
Assuming that the underlying new physics generating the C- and CP -odd decays X →
+
Y ℓ ℓ− originates from sources at some high-energy scale Λ, there are in principle three
dominant mechanisms to consider:
1. short-distance contributions to the dilepton final state,
2. long-distance contributions caused by C- and CP -odd photon–hadron couplings,
3. long-distance contributions induced by hadronic intermediate states.
For the first two classes we rely on ToPeχPT as proposed in Ref. [4]. One intricacy of the
contribution by hadronic intermediate states is that the subsequent photon is allowed to
have both isoscalar and isovector components. To predict the involved isovector transitions
in a model-independent way, one can utilize the X → Y π + π − amplitudes derived nonperturbatively in the Khuri–Treiman framework [2, 3] and establish dispersion relations for
the respective transition form factors.2 Analogous relations have previously been derived for
the decays ω, ϕ, J/ψ → π 0 γ ∗ [36–40], which are compatible with conservation of all discrete
symmetries. In addition, we sketch an idea of how to evaluate the isoscalar contribution
of the photon, employing a less sophisticated, but still symmetry-driven, vector-mesondominance (VMD) model for the decay X → Y γ ∗ . By an analytic continuation of the
three-body amplitudes X → Y π + π − to the second Riemann sheet we can extract ρY X
couplings, which can be related to the relevant ones with the same total isospin in the
VMD model using SU (3) symmetry and naive dimensional analysis (NDA).
To extract observables of the C- and CP -violating contribution in X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− driven
by a one-photon exchange we pursue the following strategy. First, we consider the phenomenology behind the three mechanisms mentioned above in Sect. 2. For this purpose we
lay out the basic definitions of kinematics and relate the amplitude to the (differential) decay widths in Sect. 2.1. We discuss the short-range semi-leptonic operators, the long-range
direct photon–hadron couplings, and the long-range hadronic contributions on a general
level in Sects. 2.2–2.4, respectively. Subsequently, Sect. 2.5 includes a discussion of the feasibility of these contributions. The remainder of the article solely focuses on long-distance
This relation is the reason why we largely ignore η ′ → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− in this article: the corresponding hadronic
decay η ′ → π 0 π + π − is comparatively rare, such that no useful limits on C violation therein can be derived
so far [2, 3, 35].
–3–

ℓ+
X

π+

ℓ+
Y

X

X

γ∗

π−

Y

ℓ+
X

γ∗

ℓ−

ℓ−

ℓ+
V

ℓ−

Y

γ∗
ℓ−

Y

Figure 1: Contributions to the C- and CP -odd decay X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− . The first diagram
describes a short-range semi-leptonic four-point vertex, the second one includes a longrange hadron–photon coupling, while the last two diagrams account for possible hadronic
intermediate states. Among the latter, the pion loop corresponds to an isovector transition
while the vector-meson conversion respects the isoscalar part of the virtual photon. The
black dot, the red box, the gray circle, and the blue box refer to different C- and CP violating vertices, while the white circle is C- and CP -conserving.
contributions with hadronic intermediate states. In Sect. 3 we investigate the isovector contributions to these hadronic long-range effects. For this purpose, we first sketch the C- and
CP -odd contributions to the decays X → Y π + π − in Sect. 3.1, which serve as input to the
respective transition form factors. The computation of the latter is discussed in Sect. 3.2.
In Sect. 3.3, we extract the corresponding C-odd couplings of the ρ(770) resonance to ηπ 0
and η ′ η by analytic continuation in the complex-energy plane. Subsequently, we estimate
the size of the hadronic long-range effects in the isoscalar parts in Sect. 4. Finally, we
present the predicted upper limits on the branching ratios in Sect. 5 and close with a short
summary and outlook in Sect. 6.
Phenomenology

In this section we discuss the phenomenological importance of the three mechanisms driving
X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− and provide the model-independent expressions for them. As an illustration
we depict the different contributions in Fig. 1. For simplicity we adapt the notation and
conventions introduced for the construction of operators in ToPeχPT in Ref. [4] without
further details.
2.1

Kinematics

Consider the transition amplitude X(P ) → Y (p)ℓ+ (pℓ+ )ℓ− (pℓ− ), with two pseudoscalars X
and Y of masses MX > MY . Conventionally, we describe the three-body decay in terms of
the Lorentz invariants
s = (P − p)2 ,

tℓ = (P − pℓ+ )2 ,

uℓ = (P − pℓ− )2 .

(2.1)

With the electromagnetic quark current
Jµ =

X

Qf q̄f γµ qf ,

(2.2)

f

where Qf indicates the electric charge of the respective quarks with flavor f and is conventionally used in units of the proton charge e, the singularity-free electromagnetic transition

–4–

form factor FXY (s) in X → Y γ ∗ can be decomposed by Poincaré invariance and current
conservation as [9, 30]


⟨Y (p)|Jµ (0)|X(P )⟩ = −i s(P + p)µ − (P 2 − p2 )qµ FXY (s) ≡ −iQµ FXY (s) .
(2.3)
Here we introduced the photon’s momentum qµ = (P − p)µ . Note that FXY (s) thus defined
is real at leading order in ToPeχPT.3 Upon contraction with the lepton current the full
decay amplitude becomes
iM(X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− ) = e2 (P + p)µ FXY (s) ūr (pℓ− )γ µ vr′ (pℓ+ ),

(2.4)

where the term proportional to qµ drops out due to current conservation [9]. In the course
of this work, we will see explicitly that the amplitude of each mechanism restores this
functional form. Taking the squared absolute value and summing over the lepton spins, one
may obtain the doubly differential decay width [41]
dΓ(X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− )
α2
=
ds dτ
16πMX



λ s, MX
, MY2 − τ 2 |FXY (s)|2 ,

(2.5)

in terms of the electromagnetic fine-structure constant α = e2 /4π, the Källén function
λ(x, y, z) = x2 + y 2 + z 2 − 2(xy + xz + yz), and the Lorentz invariant τ = tℓ − uℓ . The
τ -integration can be carried out analytically, giving



σℓ2 (s)
dΓ(X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− )
α2
3/2
2
=
λ
s,
M
,
M
σ
(s)
−
|FXY (s)|2 ,
(2.6)
ℓ
X
Y
ds
8πMX
q

where σℓ (s) = 1 − 4m2ℓ /s and the physical range is restricted to s ∈ 4m2ℓ , (MX − MY )2 .
Throughout, we use the masses me = 0.51 MeV, mµ = 105.66 MeV, Mη = 547.86 MeV,
Mη′ = 957.78 MeV, Mπ± = 139.57 MeV, and Mπ0 = 134.98 MeV [42]. For later use, we also
quote the vector-meson masses Mω = 782.66 MeV [42] and Mρ = 763.7 MeV, where the
latter is the real value of the ρ(770)-meson pole as determined in Ref. [43]. The errors and
additional decimal digits on all of these masses are negligible in our analysis.
2.2

Direct semi-leptonic contributions to X → Y ℓ+ ℓ−

In Ref. [4] it was shown that the only C-odd, P -even semi-leptonic four-point vertex to
η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− at lowest order in the QED fine-structure constant and soft momenta originates
from the dimension-8 LEFT operator
(u)
cℓψ
(u)
Oℓψ ≡ 4 ℓ̄γ µ ℓψ̄γ ν T a ψGaµν ,
Λ

(2.7)

(u)

where cℓψ denotes flavor-dependent Wilson coefficients.4 The choice of the high-energy
scale Λ depends on the interpretation of the ToPe operators: in the picture of LEFT, Λ can
Put differently, FXY (s) is real below the onset of cuts or imaginary parts due to hadronic intermediate
states, i.e., for s ≤ 4Mπ2 .
In contrast, CP -violating quark–lepton operators that contribute to these decays but are C-even and
P -odd already appear at dimension 6 [18, 44]. Note furthermore that this suppression is specific for flavordiagonal transitions: flavor-changing processes of C- and CP -odd nature are similarly already generated at
dimension 6 [5, 29].

–5–

be in the order of the electroweak scale, while in the spirit of the Standard Model effective
field theory Λ is a typical BSM scale. The respective leading ToPeχPT operators in the
large-Nc limit read [4]
(u)
cℓψ (u)
(u)
X̄ℓψ ⊃ 4 ḡ1 iφ λL ∂µ Ū † Ū − λR ∂µ Ū Ū †
Λ

ℓ̄γ µ ℓ ,

(2.8)

where we employ the simple single-angle η-η ′ mixing scheme [45], for which the singlet
component corresponds to
√
4
φ= √
η+ √
η′ .
(2.9)
3 3F0
3 3F0
The meson matrix in the large-Nc limit is then given by
q

√ + 
√ +
0
√1 η ′ +
2π
2K
η
+
π
 
 3 √ 3

q
√
iΦ̄


2
′
−
0
√
Ū = exp
, where Φ̄ = 
.
η + 3η − π
2π
2K
F0

q 
√ −
√ 0
√2 η ′ −
2K
2K̄
3η
(2.10)
In both Eqs. (2.9) and (2.10), η and η ′ refer to the physical fields; see, e.g., Refs. [45–47] for
detailed discussions on more elaborate mixing schemes. Furthermore, in relation (2.8) we
have introduced the spurion matrices λL,R in flavor space, which were defined in Ref. [4] and
acquire the same physical values, namely λL,R ∈ {diag(1, 0, 0), diag(0, 1, 0), diag(0, 0, 1)}
for the quark flavor ψ = u, d, s, respectively. Besides, F0 denotes the common meson decay
constant in the combined chiral and large-Nc limit, F0 ≲ Fπ ≈ 92.3 MeV. Summing over ψ
(u)
and only picking the interactions relevant for our interests, the operator X̄ℓψ gives rise to
the leading-order Lagrangians
LXY ℓ+ ℓ− =
with the normalizations
√
2 2 (u) (u)
(u) 
Nη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− ≡ √ ḡ1 cℓu − cℓd ,
3 3
Λ4 F02

NX→Y ℓ+ ℓ− ℓ̄γ µ ℓX∂µ Y

(2.11)

√
2 2 (u) (u)
(u)
(u) 
Nη′ →ηℓ+ ℓ− ≡
ḡ1 cℓu + cℓd − 2cℓs . (2.12)
Both processes are uncorrelated as their normalizations are linearly independent; the flavor
combinations reflect the isospin and SU (3) structure of the transitions. Making use of the
Dirac equation for the leptons, the corresponding matrix element yields
iM = e2 (P + p)µ F1 (s) ūr (pℓ− )γ µ vr′ (pℓ+ ) ,
with
F1 (s) ≡ −
1 2πF02
F02
N
=
−
.
+ ℓ− ∼ −
X→Y
ℓ
Λ4 e2
2αΛ4
2e2 Λ4 F02

(2.13)

(2.14)

In the last step we applied the NDA assumption NX→Y ℓ+ ℓ− ∼ 4πF04 . Note, however, that
the sign of the normalization is not fixed by NDA.

–6–

2.3

Direct photonic contributions to X → Y γ ∗

The leading-order contribution to the effective Lagrangian of X → Y γ ∗ reads [4]
LX→Y γ ∗ =
Λ4 F02

NX→Y γ ∗ ∂µ X∂ν Y F µν + O(p6 ).

(2.15)

We may access the normalization NX→Y γ ∗ using NDA, by regarding the possible sources on
the level of LEFT, cf. Ref. [4]. In this discussion we can directly ignore LEFT sources whose
leading-order contributions in ToPeχPT are proportional to the ϵ-tensor and can thus not
generate an even number of pseudoscalars and at the same time preserve parity. The NDA
estimate of NX→Y γ ∗ for the chirality-breaking dimension-7 LEFT quark-quadrilinear [48–
52]
v (a) ⃗
(a)
µ
Oψχ = 4 cψχ ψ̄D
(2.16)
µ γ5 ψ χ̄γ γ5 χ ,
Λ
⃗

which is in the focus of Ref. [4], yields evF03 /4π, with Higgs vev v. For the C- and CP -odd
dimension-8 operators listed in this reference with two quarks and two gluon field strengths,
four quarks and one gluon field strength, four quarks and one photon field strength, we have
NX→Y γ ∗ ∼ eF04 , eF04 /(4π), F04 , respectively. It has to be underlined that each of these
estimates may differ by one order of magnitude, possibly rendering all of these operators to
the same numerical size. However, in the scope of these NDA estimations, we assume the
normalization of the dimension-7 LEFT operator to dominate the remaining ones.
Using LX→Y γ ∗ to evaluate the C-odd vertex in the second diagram of Fig. 1, we obtain
the matrix element [4]
iM = e2 (P + p)ν F2 (s) ūr (pℓ− )γ ν vr′ (pℓ+ ) ,
with
F2 (s) ≡

vF0
.
NX→Y γ ∗ ∼
4
8πΛ4
2eΛ F0

(2.17)

(2.18)

Again, NDA does not provide any information on the sign of the amplitude. Comparing
Eqs. (2.14) and (2.18), we note F2 (s)/F1 (s) ∼ αv/(4πF0 ) ≈ 1.5, hence both contributions
are really expected to be of comparable size.
2.4

Hadronic long-range effects

The hadronic long-range contributions to the transition form factor can be constructed with
knowledge about ToPe forces in X → Y π + π − [2, 3]. We consider in the following sections
both the isovector and isoscalar part of the photon.
2.4.1

The isovector contribution

In this section we establish dispersion relations for hadronic contributions of the C- and
CP -odd transition form factor FXY and restrict the calculation to the isovector part of the
photon. The discontinuity of X → Y γ ∗ , as depicted in Fig. 2, can be calculated by applying
a unitarity cut on the dominant intermediate state, i.e., two charged pions, allowing us to
access the transition form factor in a non-perturbative fashion. The first ingredient to the

–7–

π+
X

ℓ+
γ∗
ℓ−

π−
Y

Figure 2: Discontinuity of the X → Y γ ∗ transition form factors, representative for the
decays η → π 0 γ ∗ and η ′ → ηγ ∗ . The white blob denotes the pion vector form factor and the
gray one the C-violating contributions to the η → π 0 π + π − and η ′ → ηπ + π − amplitudes,
respectively. The dashed line illustrates the unitarity cut.
discontinuity in Fig. 2 is indicated by the gray blob and describes the C- and CP -odd
contributions to the hadronic X → Y π + π − decay amplitude defined by
Y (p) π + (p+ ) π − (p− ) iT X(P ) = (2π)4 δ (4) (P − p − p+ − p− ) iMXY (s, t, u) .

(2.19)

These amplitudes will be discussed in detail for the different cases in Sect. 3. The remaining
contribution is the pion vector form factor defined via the current5
⟨π + (p+ )π − (p− )|Jµ (0)|0⟩ = (p+ − p− )µ FπV (s) .

(2.20)

Note that this equation and Eq. (2.3) differ, beside the respective momentum configuration,
by an explicit imaginary unit as demanded by their different behavior under time reversal.
With only elastic rescattering taken into account, the pion vector form factor obeys the
discontinuity relation
disc FπV (s) = 2i FπV (s) sin δ1 (s)e−iδ1 (s) θ(s − 4Mπ2 ) ,

(2.21)

where δ1 (s) denotes the P -wave ππ phase shift with two-body isospin Iππ = 1. The most
general solution to this equation is given in terms of the Omnès function [53]
!
Z∞
s
δ1 (x)
V
Fπ (s) = Pn (s) Ω1 (s) = Pn (s) exp
dx ,
(2.22)
π
x(x − s)
4Mπ2

with a real-valued subtraction polynomial Pn of order n. The index of the Omnès function
indicates the isospin Iππ of the dipion state. The pion vector form factor is expected to
behave as FπV (s) ≍ 1/s for large energies [54–61] (up to logarithmic corrections), and to be
free of zeros [61, 62]. Thus, Pn is a constant and can be set to 1 due to gauge invariance, such
that FπV (s) = Ω1 (s). For consistency we waive the incorporation of inelastic effects, which
we do not consider in X → Y π + π − either. In the region of the ρ(770) resonance dominating
FπV (s), these are known to affect the form factor by no more than 6%, depending on the
phase shift used as input [63]. Given other sources of uncertainty in the present study, we
consider this error negligible.
In the isospin limit, which we will employ for the pion form factor in the following, only the isovector

(1)
¯ µd .
contribution of the current contributes, i.e., Jµ = 21 ūγµ u − dγ

–8–

η ′ → ηπ + π −

η → π0π+π−

analytic cont.

←−−−−−−−−→

gρηη′

analytic cont.

gρπη

←−−−−−−−−→

SU (3), NDA

←−−−−−−−−→

gωπη , gϕπη

←−−−→

VMD

η → (ωπ 0 →) π 0 γ ∗

SU (3), NDA

gωηη′ , gϕηη′

←−−−→

VMD

η ′ → (ηω, ηϕ →) ηγ ∗

isospin I=1

←−−−−−−−−→
isospin I=0

Figure 3: Schematic sketch of the strategy to extract the isoscalar contribution of the
η → π 0 γ ∗ (η ′ → ηγ ∗ ) transition form factor (blue) from the C- and CP -odd η ′ → ηπ + π −
(η → π 0 π + π − ) amplitude (red) using vector-meson couplings (green).
When we cut the dipion intermediate state in Fig. 2, the discontinuity of the isovector
(1)
contribution FXY to the transition form factor FXY becomes

d4 k
2
2
δ(k
−
M
)
δ
(q
−
k
)
−
M
MXY (s, t, u) (q − 2k)µ FπV ∗ (s) ,
π
π
(2π)2
(2.23)
2
where t = (P − p+ ) and u = (P − p− ) . We find
(1)
Qµ discFXY (s) =

Z

(1)

discFXY (s) = −

1 3
σ (s)FπV ∗ (s) fXY (s) θ(s − 4Mπ2 ) ,
24π π

(2.24)

p
where σπ (s) = 1 − 4Mπ2 /s. In this discontinuity relation the quantity fXY denotes the
P -wave projection of the hadronic decay amplitude given by
Z 1
fXY (s) ≡
dz z MXY (s, t, u),
(2.25)
2κ(s) −1
with
z=

t−u
κ(s)

and


κ(s) = σπ (s)λ1/2 s, MX
, MY2 .

(2.26)

Adapting the high-energy behavior of fXY and δ1 from Refs. [2, 3], an unsubtracted dispersion relation is sufficient to ensure convergence of the remaining integral over the discontinuity, such that the form factor can be evaluated with
Z ∞
i
fXY (x)
(1)
FXY (s) =
dx σπ3 (x)FπV ∗ (x)
.
(2.27)
48π 4Mπ2
x−s
2.4.2

The isoscalar contribution

In order to estimate the isoscalar contribution, we apply a VMD pole approximation and
consider a vector-meson conversion of γ ∗ to vµ , with v ∈ {ω, ϕ}, cf. the very right diagram in
Fig. 1. While this strategy is not as model-independent and sophisticated as the dispersive
analysis of the isovector part of γ ∗ , it serves as a good approximation to at least estimate the
relative size of this contribution, not least due to the narrowness of the ω and ϕ resonances
dominating isoscalar vector spectral functions at low energies. Furthermore, this ansatz
even correlates the decay η → π 0 γ ∗ to η ′ → ηπ + π − and η ′ → ηγ ∗ to η → π 0 π + π − by
following the strategy sketched in Fig. 3 to relate the decays of same total isospin.

–9–

The combination of vector mesons with χPT was extensively worked out for instance
in Refs. [64–69] and references therein. The number of free parameters can be reduced most
efficiently, cf. Ref. [66], by coupling uncharged vector mesons to uncharged pseudoscalars via
µν
the field-strength tensor VL,R
. The latter is the analog to the photonic one with the same
discrete symmetries and transformations under SU (3)L × SU (3)R . If we only consider the
µ
relevant degrees of freedom, i.e., treating Ū and VL,R
as diagonal matrices, we can effectively
write
µν
µ
ν
VL,R
= ∂ µ VL,R
− ∂ ν VL,R
.
(2.28)
The physical value of this chiral building block can be evaluated with VLµ = VRµ = diag(ρ +
√
ω, −ρ + ω, 2ϕ)µ + . . ., where the ellipsis indicates terms without vector mesons. At the
mesonic level, we can deduce the desired interaction from the leading-order XY γ ∗ operator,
cf. Ref. [10], and hence write
LvY X = gvY X ∂µ X∂ν Y v µν ,

(2.29)

with vµν ≡ ∂µ vν −∂ν vµ . The ToPeχPT operators that can generate this mesonic interaction
at leading order in the large-Nc power counting, i.e., O(p4 , δ 2 ) (see Ref. [4] for further
details), and originate from the LEFT operator in Eq. (2.16) are

v (a)  (a)
(a)
X̄ψχ ⊃ 4 cψχ ḡV1 λL ∂ν Ū † Ū − λR ∂ν Ū Ū † λVLµν ∂µ Ū † − λ† VRµν ∂µ Ū − h.c.
Λ

(a)
+ ḡV2 λ∂µ Ū † − λ† ∂µ Ū
λL VLµν ∂ν Ū † Ū − λR VRµν ∂ν Ū Ū † − h.c. (2.30)


(a)
+ ḡV3 ∂ν φ λλL VLµν ∂µ Ū † − λ† λR VRµν ∂µ Ū − h.c. .
Here, we only list the operators leading to distinct, non-vanishing, expressions after we set
µν
to their physical values and use the fact that in our application all
λ(†) , λL,R , and VL,R
appearing matrices are diagonal and therefore commute. Evaluating the flavor traces of
the operator in the first line and labeling the vector-meson couplings with a corresponding
superscript (V1 ), we end up with
r
√
16v
8 2v (a)
2 (a)
1 (V1 )
(a)  (a)
(V1 )
(a)  (a)
(V1 )
gρπη = 4 2
cud + cdu ḡV1 − √ gωηη′ ,
gρηη′ =
cus − cds ḡV1 ,
4
Λ F0 3
Λ F0
r
√
2 (a)
1 (V1 )
8 2v (a)
16v
(a)  (a)
(V1 )
(a)  (a) (2.31)
(V1 )
cud − cdu ḡV1 − √ gρηη′ ,
gωηη′ =
c
+
c
gωπη = 4 2
us
ds ḡV1 ,
Λ F0 3
Λ4 F02
16v
16v
(V1 )
(a)  (a)
(V )
(a)  (a)
gϕπη
=√
c(a)
ḡV1 ,
gϕηη1 ′ = − 4 2 c(a)
su − csd
su + csd ḡV1 .
4
Λ F0
3Λ F0
For the second operator in Eq. (2.30) we observe that the resulting vector meson couplings
(V )
(V )
(a) (a)
(a) (a)
(a)
gvY2X equal the gvY1X from Eq. (2.31) if cψχ ḡV2 = −cχψ ḡV1 . The third operator in X̄ψχ
yields
√
4 2v (a)
1 (V3 )
(V3 )
(a)  (a)
(V3 )
gρηη′ = − 4 2 cuu − cdd ḡV3 ,
gρπη = √ gωηη′ ,
3Λ F0
√
1 (V3 )
4 2v (a)
(V3 )
(a)  (a)
(V3 )
(2.32)
gωπη = √ gρηη′ ,
gωηη′ = − 4 2 cuu + cdd ḡV3 ,
3Λ F0
16v (a) (a)
(V3 )
(V )
c ḡ .
gϕπη
= 0,
gϕηη3 ′ =
3Λ4 F02 ss V3

– 10 –

Both Eqs. (2.31) and (2.32) suggest that there is a correlation between gρπη and gωηη′ as
well as between gρπη and gωηη′ , but none of gϕπη or gϕηη′ with the ρ couplings. However,
this observation does not necessarily hold for higher orders in ToPeχPT or for operators
derived from other LEFT sources. We continue with the couplings in Eq. (2.32) as our
central estimates and make use of the flavor relations implied therein.
Next, we consider the Lagrangian
Lvγ = −

eMv2
Aν v ν
gvγ

(2.33)

for the vector-meson conversion with known coupling constants gvγ . As Eq. (2.33) employs
the photon field instead of the field strength tensor, it is not manifestly gauge invariant.
In the end, this is a necessity to implement strict VMD for the isoscalar part of the form
factor, avoiding an additional direct photon coupling. We can now evaluate the isoscalar
contribution illustrated on the very right in Fig. 1, which, in agreement with Eq. (2.4),
gives rise to the matrix element
(0)

(0)

iMXY = e2 (P + p)µ FXY (s) ūr (pℓ− )γ µ vr′ (pℓ+ ) .

(2.34)

The corresponding isoscalar form factor, which is consistent with the high-energy behavior
of the isovector part in Eq. (2.27), finally reads
(0)

FXY (s) ≡

Mv2
g̃
,
2gvγ Mv2 − s

(2.35)

where g̃ equals gvπη for X = η, Y = π 0 and gvηη′ for X = η ′ , Y = η.
2.5

Discussion

With the results worked out in the previous sections we can evaluate the full contribution
of the X → Y γ ∗ transition form factors by
(1)

(0)

FXY (s) = F1 (s) + F2 (s) + FXY (s) + FXY (s) ,

(2.36)

where each summand corresponds to one diagram in Fig. 1. Note that there is no way
to distinguish between the four contributions in a sole measurement of the X → Y ℓ+ ℓ−
branching ratio.
Regarding F1 and F2 , we observe that their NDA estimates in Eqs. (2.14) and (2.18)
yield roughly the same result, even without accounting for the uncertainty of NDA. Hence,
there is no clear hierarchy between direct semi-leptonic contributions and C- and CP violating photon–hadron couplings contributing to X → Y ℓ+ ℓ− . In future analyses, the
sum F1 + F2 (which does not depend on s at leading order in ToPeχPT) may be replaced
by a single constant parameter in a regression to hypothetical measurements of respective
singly- or doubly-differential momentum distributions.
We remark in passing that all transition form factor contributions could be expected
to undergo further hadronic corrections due to “initial-state interactions” of ηπ and η ′ η P wave type, respectively. However, all corresponding phase shifts are expected to be tiny and

– 11 –

the resulting effects to be hence utterly negligible: the ηπ P -wave is strongly suppressed
in the chiral expansion at low energies relative to ηπ S-wave or ππ rescattering [70, 71],
and resonances with quark-model-exotic quantum numbers J P C = 1−+ due to their C-odd
nature will have a rather large mass [72]. We therefore do not consider any such corrections
in this article.
Given the currently accessible experimental data and the missing information on the
(1)
(0)
normalizations of F1 and F2 , we henceforth focus on the contributions of FXY and FXY .
On the one hand, we are in a position to predict the latter with the input discussed in
Sect. 2.4. On the other hand, they provide new conceptual insights by directly relating ToPe
forces in X → Y π + π − with X → Y γ ∗ . Moreover, for simplicity we assume no significant
cancellations among the individual contributions in Eq. (2.36) throughout this manuscript.
We leave the study of such a more complicated interplay between different mechanisms for
future analyses, when more rigorous experimental bounds may be exploited for correlated
constraints between them.
Hadronic long-range effects: the isovector contribution

In this section we investigate the isovector contribution to the transition form factor X →
Y γ ∗ based on the dispersive representations derived in Sect. 2.4.1. Thus, we focus on Cand CP -odd contributions of the lowest-lying hadronic intermediate state, i.e., on the decay
chain X → Y π + π − → Y γ ∗ .
The dispersive C- and CP -odd X → Y π + π − partial-wave amplitude

3.1

The formalism, results, and most of the notation are adopted from Refs. [2, 3]. The latter
uses a dispersive framework known as Khuri–Treiman equations [73] to access the threebody amplitude X → Y π + π − including its C- and CP -odd contributions. In this approach,
a coupled set of integral equations is set up for the two-body scattering process and analytically continued to the physical realm of the three-body decay.
3.1.1

η → π0π+π−

The C- and CP -odd contributions to η → π 0 π + π − read
ηπ
Mηπ (s, t, u) = Mηπ
0 (s, t, u) + M2 (s, t, u),

(3.1)

where the lower index denotes the total isospin of the three-body final state. Neglecting Dand higher partial waves, we can decompose these amplitudes in the sense of a reconstruction
theorem [74–76] into single-variable functions GIππ (s), HIππ (s) with fixed two-body isospin
Iππ and relative angular momentum ℓ of the π + π − state:
Mηπ
0 (s, t, u) = (t − u)G1 (s) + (u − s)G1 (t) + (s − t)G1 (u),
Mηπ
2 (s, t, u) = 2(u − t)H1 (s) + (u − s)H1 (t) + (s − t)H1 (u) − H2 (t) + H2 (u).

(3.2)

Due to Bose symmetry the Iππ = 1 single-variable functions have ℓ = 1 while the ones with
Iππ = 2 have ℓ = 0. Unitarity demands the single-variable functions to obey


disc AIππ (s) = 2i sin δIππ (s)e−iδIππ (s) AIππ (s) + ÂIππ (s) θ(s − 4Mπ2 ),
(3.3)

– 12 –

with AIππ ∈ {GIππ , HIππ } and the ππ scattering phase shift δIππ (s). The inhomogeneity
ÂIππ (s) contains left-hand-cut contributions induced by crossed-channel rescattering effects.
In terms of the angular average
Z


1 1
n
⟨z f ⟩ :=
dz z n f 3r−s+zκ(s)
,
(3.4)
2 −1
with 3r ≡ s + t + u, the ÂIππ (s) explicitly read

3(s − r)⟨zG1 ⟩ + κ(s)⟨z 2 G1 ⟩ ,
κ(s)

Ĥ1 (s) =
3(s − r)⟨zH1 ⟩ + κ(s)⟨z 2 H1 ⟩ + 2⟨zH2 ⟩ ,
2κ(s)
Ĥ2 (s) = (9(s − r)⟨H1 ⟩ + 3κ(s)⟨zH1 ⟩ − 2⟨H2 ⟩) .
Ĝ1 (s) = −

(3.5)

For the AIππ (s) we employ dispersion relations with a minimal number of subtractions to
ensure convergence. Assuming that in the limit of infinite s the phase shifts scale like
δ1 (s) → π, δ2 (s) → 0 and the single-variable functions as A1 (s) = O(s−1 ), A2 (s) = O(s0 ),
we obtain
!
Z∞
dx sin δ1 (x)Ĝ1 (x)
s
,
G1 (s) = Ω1 (s) ε +
π
x |Ω1 (x)| (x − s)
4Mπ2
Z∞

s
H1 (s) = Ω1 (s) ϑ +
π

!
dx sin δ1 (x)Ĥ1 (x)
,
x |Ω1 (x)| (x − s)

(3.6)

4Mπ2

s
H2 (s) = Ω2 (s)
π

Z∞

dx sin δ2 (x)Ĥ2 (x)
,
x |Ω2 (x)| (x − s)

4Mπ2

where here and in the following Mπ ≡ Mπ± . The C-conserving SM amplitude for η →
π + π − π 0 is similarly described in terms of Khuri–Treiman amplitudes; these have been
discussed extensively in the literature, see Ref. [77] and references therein. The subtraction
constants obtained by a fit to the Dalitz-plot distributions6 of X → Y π + π − [79] yield [2, 3]
ε = i 0.014(22) Mπ−2 ,

ϑ = i 0.068(34) × 10−3 Mπ−2 .

(3.7)

These subtraction constants give rise to the real-valued isoscalar and isotensor couplings
g0 = −2.8(4.5) GeV−6 and g2 = −9.3(4.6) · 10−3 GeV−2 [2, 3], using
ε = −0.25i GeV4 g0 ,

ϑ = −0.38i g2 .

(3.8)

With the AIππ (s) defined above, the P -wave amplitude necessary to evaluate the η → π 0 γ ∗
transition form factor is by definition, cf. Eq. (2.25), given as
fηπ (s) = G1 (s) + Ĝ1 (s) + H1 (s) + Ĥ1 (s) ,

(3.9)

The latest BESIII data for η → π + π − π 0 [78] is not included in Refs. [2, 3] yet and has also not been
added to our present analysis, as the statistical accuracy does not supersede that of Ref. [79].
– 13 –

whose dependence on H2 and Ĥ2 is rather subtle and enters the definition of Ĥ1 in Eq. (3.5).
The transition form factor is fully determined by knowledge about the partial-wave
amplitude fXY (s) and the pion vector form factor FπV (s). These quantities are in turn fixed
by the subtraction constants ε, ϑ, the S-wave ππ scattering phase shift δ2 with isospin 2,
and the P -wave ππ scattering phase shift δ1 [80], respectively. The latter has to be used
consistently in fXY (s) and FπV (s), i.e., we use the same continuation to asymptotic s and
omit the incorporation of inelasticities, which is beyond the scope of this work.
3.1.2

η ′ → ηπ + π −

In the C-and CP -violating contribution to η ′ → ηπ + π − the three-body final state carries
total three-body isospin 1. The respective amplitude can be decomposed as
′

Mη η (s, t, u) = (t − u)Gππ (s) + Gηπ (t) − Gηπ (u);

(3.10)

see Ref. [81] for the corresponding SM amplitude. The indices labeling the single-variable
functions indicate which two particles contribute to the intermediate state of the scattering
process. While the ππ intermediate state has the quantum numbers Iππ = 1, ℓ = 1, ηπ
has Iηπ = 1, ℓ = 0. Both Gππ (s) and Gηπ (s) fulfill the discontinuity equation as quoted in
Eq. (3.3). The inhomogeneities in this case are
⟨zs Gηπ ⟩,
κππ


∆
+
Ĝηπ (t) = −⟨Gηπ ⟩ −
r−t+
⟨Gππ ⟩− + κηπ ⟨zt Gππ ⟩− ,
3t
Ĝππ (s) =

(3.11)

where the cosine of the scattering angles in the s-channel is still given by the general
expression Eq. (2.26), zs ≡ z, while the one in the t-channel reads
t (u − s) − ∆
zt =
,
t κηπ (t)

with

κηπ (t) =

λ1/2 (t, Mη2′ , Mπ2 ) λ1/2 (t, Mη2 , Mπ2 )
t

.

(3.12)

In these equations we used the notation ∆ ≡ (Mη2′ − Mπ2 )(Mη2 − Mπ2 ). We additionally
introduced two new types of angular averages, namely
Z


1 1
3r−t+zκηπ (t)±∆/t
n ±
dz z n f
⟨z f ⟩ :=
.
(3.13)
2 −1
Assuming the asymptotics δηπ (t) → π and Gππ (s) = O(1/s), Gηπ (t) = O(t0 ), the singlevariable functions can be evaluated by


Z∞
s
dx sin δππ (x)Ĝππ (x) 
Gππ (s) = Ωππ (s) ϱ +
,
π
x |Ωππ (x)| (x − s)
sth


(3.14)
∞
2 Z dx sin δ (x)Ĝ (x)
t
ηπ
ηπ
.
Gηπ (t) = Ωηπ (t) ζ t +
π
x2 |Ωηπ (x)| (x − t)
tth

– 14 –

Here, the ηπ S-wave phase shift from Refs. [82, 83] has been employed. For the subtraction
constants, the values
ϱ = −i 0.04(12) Mπ−2 ,

ζ = i 0.05(12) Mπ−2 ,

(3.15)

have been obtained by a regression to the Dalitz-plot distribution of η ′ → ηπ + π − [84]. In
terms of the real-valued isovector coupling g1 = 0.7(1.0) GeV−2 and its leading correction
δg1 = −5.5(7.3) GeV−2 [3], the subtraction constants read


ϱ = −3.5 · 10−3 ig1 1 − 166.5 GeV2 δg1 ,
ζ = 0.76 ig1 1 − 0.65 GeV2 δg1 . (3.16)
Finally, the P -wave entering the η ′ → ηγ ∗ transition form factor is given by
fη′ η (s) = Gππ (s) + Ĝππ (s).

(3.17)

The dependence of fη′ η on the S-wave amplitude Gηπ is encoded in the angular averages in
Eq. (3.11).
3.2

Computation of the isovector form factor X → Y γ ∗
(1)

When computing the transition form factors FXY , it is advantageous to exploit the linearity
of the three-body decay amplitudes MXY in the subtraction constants. As mentioned in
Refs. [2, 3], the solutions of the Khuri–Treiman amplitudes can be represented by so-called
basis solutions, which are independent of the subtraction constants and can be fixed once
and for all before even carrying out a regression to data.
3.2.1

η → π0γ ∗

The basis solutions for the P -wave amplitude fηπ are defined by


ε
fηπ
(s) ≡ G1 (s) + Ĝ1 (s)

ε=1

,



ϑ
fηπ
(s) ≡ H1 (s) + Ĥ1 (s)

ϑ=1

,

(3.18)

ε corresponds to the isoscalar amplitude
and illustrated in Fig. 4(top). The dimensionless fηπ
ηπ
ϑ belongs to the isotensor one, i.e., to Mηπ . The partial waves have a
M0 , while fηπ
singular character at pseudothreshold, i.e., the upper limit in s of the physical region in
the η → π 0 π + π − decay, which is contained in the inhomogeneities describing left-hand-cut
contributions to the respective partial wave. Note that the form factor, after performing
the dispersion integral over the discontinuity as in Eq. (2.27), is perfectly regular at that
point. Based on Eq. (3.18), we can calculate the corresponding basis form factors
ν
(1)
ν ,
Fηπ
(s) = Fηπ
(s)|fηπ =fηπ

with

ν ∈ {ε, ϑ} ,

(3.19)

(1)

which allow us to linearly decompose Fηπ according to
(1)
ε
ϑ
Fηπ
(s) = εFηπ
(s) + ϑFηπ
(s) .

(3.20)

ν are pure predictions of our dispersive representation, independent of the subtracThe Fηπ
tion constants. Our results for the basis solutions for the form factors are depicted in
Fig. 4(bottom).

– 15 –
0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0
4
0

-2

-4
0

0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0

0.1

0.0

-0.1

-0.2
Figure 4: Basis solutions for the partial waves and form factors for the η → π 0 transition.
ν from Eq. (3.18) are depicted in the upper panel; the
The partial-wave amplitudes fηπ
singularity at the pseudothreshold s = (Mη − Mπ0 )2 is clearly visible. These serve as an
ν (s) as defined in
input to calculate the basis solutions of the transition form factors Fηπ
Eq. (3.19) and shown in the lower panel.
(1)

Let us have a look at the hierarchy of the two amplitudes contributing to Fηπ . The plots
in Fig. 4 show that the basis solutions for the isoscalar and isotensor contributions to the
η → π 0 π + π − P -wave amplitude are of the same order of magnitude, and so are, as a result,
the corresponding basis form factors. But due to the vast difference in their normalizing
ϑ (s) is negligibly small in comparison to εF ε (s). The
subtraction constants, the term ϑFηπ
ηπ

– 16 –

origin of this discrepancy is well understood [1–3]. The totally antisymmetric combination
of P -wave single-variable functions in the isoscalar amplitude Mηπ
0 , cf. Eq. (3.2), leads
to a strong kinematic suppression inside the Dalitz plot; for symmetry reasons alone, the
amplitude is required to vanish along the three lines s = t, t = u, and u = s. As a
result, the corresponding normalization ε is far less rigorously constrained from fits to
experimental data [79] than the isotensor amplitude, which only vanishes for t = u. No
such suppression occurs for the individual partial waves, or the transition form factors, be
it in the ρ-resonance region or below, in the kinematic range relevant for the semi-leptonic
decays studied here, where isoscalar and isotensor contributions show non-negligible, but
moderate corrections to a ρ-dominance picture. We also remark that this subtle interplay
demonstrates that the model-independent connection between Dalitz plots and transition
form factors absolutely requires the use of dispersion-theoretical methods—a low-energy
effective theory such as chiral perturbation theory is insufficient for such extrapolations.
(1)
For the numerical evaluation of Fηπ we only consider the by far dominant source of
error, i.e., the uncertainty of the subtraction constants entering the partial wave. As their
errors are of the same order of magnitude as their corresponding central values, it is a
good approximation to neglect all other sources of uncertainties, such as the variation of
phase-shift input.
3.2.2

η ′ → ηγ ∗

We now turn the focus on the transition form factor fη′ η , whose basis solutions in terms of
partial waves are defined as




fηϱ′ η (s) = Gππ (s) + Ĝππ (s)
,
fηζ′ η (s) = Gππ (s) + Ĝππ (s)
. (3.21)
ϱ=1, ζ=0

ϱ=0, ζ=1

Using the fην′ η we can define the basis from factors
(1)

Fην′ η (s) = Fη′ η (s)|fη′ η =f ν′ ,
η η

with

ν ∈ {ϱ, ζ} ,

(3.22)

and finally obtain the complete isovector form factor in explicit dependence on the subtraction constants by means of
(1)

Fη′ η (s) = ϱFηϱ′ η (s) + ζFηζ′ η (s) .

(3.23)

The basis solutions for both partial waves and transition form factors are shown in Fig. 5.
3.3

Resonance couplings from analytic continuation
(1)

As both the partial waves fXY (s) and the resulting transition form factors FXY (s) have been
constructed with the correct analytic properties, we can analytically continue them into the
complex plane and onto the second Riemann sheet to extract resonance pole residues. The
resonance in question is the ρ(770); its residues can be interpreted as model-independent
definitions of C-violating ρ → XY coupling constants. To this end, we recapitulate aspects
of Refs. [85, 86]. First, consider the discontinuity of the transition form factor in Eq. (2.24)
on the first Riemann sheet
3 V, I
∗ I
i
(1), I
(1), I
FXY (s + iϵ) − FXY (s − iϵ) =
σ π (s + iϵ)
Fπ (s + iϵ) fXY
(s + iϵ),
(3.24)
24π

– 17 –
0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0
4
0

-2

-4
0

0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0

0.1

0.0

-0.1

-0.2
Figure 5: Basis solutions for the partial waves and form factors for the η ′ → η transition.
The partial-wave amplitudes fην′ η from Refs. [2, 3] are depicted in the upper panel; again,
the singularity at the pseudothreshold s = (Mη′ − Mη )2 can be seen. These serve as an
input to calculate the basis solutions of the transition form factors Fην′ η (s) as defined in
Eq. (3.22) and shown in the lower panel.
with

r

4Mπ2
− 1,
σ π (s ± iϵ) = ∓i σπ (s) .
(3.25)
s
Using that the pion vector form factor fulfills Schwarz’ reflection principle and demanding
continuity of the scattering amplitudes when moving from one Riemann sheet to another,
π

σ (s) ≡

– 18 –

i.e.,
(1), I

(1), II

FXY (s − iϵ) = FXY (s + iϵ)

and

FπV, I (s − iϵ) = FπV, II (s + iϵ),

(3.26)

we obtain
3
i
I
σ π (s + iϵ) FπV, II (s + iϵ) fXY
(s + iϵ) .
(3.27)
24π
Left- and right-hand side of Eq. (3.27) depend on the same argument, such that, by analytic
continuation, this relation can be applied in the whole complex plane. In particular, in the
vicinity of the ρ(770) pole, the transition form factors as well as the pion form factor on
the second Riemann sheet behave as


Γρ 2
(1), II
V, II
, with sρ = Mρ − i
.
(3.28)
FXY (s) , Fπ (s) ∝
sρ − s
(1), II

(1), I

FXY (s + iϵ) = FXY (s + iϵ) −

The pole position sρ has been determined most accurately in Ref. [43], using Roy-like
equations for pion–pion scattering: Mρ = 763.7 MeV, Γρ = 146.4 MeV (cf. also Ref. [87]);
for later use, we also quote the coupling constant to ππ, |gρππ | = 6.01, arg(gρππ ) = −5.3◦ .
We neglect the uncertainties in these parameters, as they are small compared to the ones
fixing the partial waves fXY . While FπV, II is explicitly given in Ref. [86], we can match
(1), II
FXY to a VMD-type form factor similar to Eq. (2.35), but with gρY X , gργ , and Mρ2
instead of g̃, gvγ , and Mv2 . Thus, in sufficient vicinity to the pole, we can write
FπV, II (s) =

gρππ sρ
gργ sρ − s

and

(1), II

FXY (s) =

gρY X Mρ2
.
2gργ sρ − s

(3.29)

If we evaluate Eq. (3.27) near the pole sρ and insert Eq. (3.29), we can compute the desired
C-odd ρ-meson couplings by
gρππ sρ 3
I
gρY X =
σ (sρ ) fXY
(sρ ) .
(3.30)
12π Mρ2 π
I
The problem is therefore reduced to evaluating the partial wave fXY
on the first Riemann
sheet at the pole position, a task for which the dispersive representations are perfectly
suited. To clarify the dependence on subtractions or effective coupling constants and therefore separate the uncertainty in these from the precisely calculable dispersive aspects, we
will once more make use of the decomposition in terms of basis functions.
We begin with the η → π 0 transition form factor. The basis functions of the partial
wave fηπ , evaluated at the ρ pole, result in
ε
fηπ
(sρ ) = −0.02 − 2.76i ,

ϑ
fηπ
(sρ ) = 0.87 − 3.05i ,

(3.31)

so that we obtain


ε
ϑ
fηπ (sρ ) = εfηπ
(sρ ) + ϑfηπ
(sρ ) = (−0.704 + i 0.005) GeV4 g0 − (1.149 + i 0.330)g2 , (3.32)
where we made use of Eq. (3.8). Employing of Eq. (3.30) and finally inserting the values for
the coupling constants g0 and g2 as extracted from the η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetry
then yields


gρπη = (−0.089 + i 0.022) GeV4 g0 − (0.156 + i 0.007) g2
(3.33)


= 0.25(0.40) − i 0.06(0.10) GeV−2 .

– 19 –

Note that the isotensor contribution g2 is negligible in the coupling gρπη .
The analytic continuation of the basis partial wave for fη′ η to the pole position of the
ρ meson yields
fηϱ′ η (sρ ) = 0.44 − 2.95i ,

fηζ′ η (sρ ) = −0.45 − 0.17i .

(3.34)

With Eq. (3.16) we can hence express the analytically continued partial wave at the ρ pole
by


fη′ η (sρ ) = ϱfηϱ′ η (sρ ) + ζfηζ′ η (sρ ) = g1 (0.12 − i 0.34) + (1.63 + i 0.48) GeV2 δg1 . (3.35)
In terms of this result, the ρ-meson coupling from Eq. (3.30) results in


gρηη′ = g1 (0.005 − i 0.047) + (0.222 + i 0.011) GeV2 δg1


= − 0.85(2.36) + i 0.08(0.17) GeV−2 ,

(3.36)

where we considered correlated Gaussian errors for the couplings g1 and δg1 .
Note that the coupling constants in Eq. (3.30) become inevitably complex-valued, thus
spoiling the well-defined transformation under time reversal when compared to the tree-level
coupling constants from ToPeχPT. This is neither surprising nor specific to the context of
symmetry violation studied here: in the strong interactions, resonance couplings that are
real in the narrow-width limit necessarily turn complex when defined model-independently
via pole residues in the complex plane. However, this points towards the reason why these
complex phases will be irrelevant when using symmetry arguments to estimate isoscalar
contributions in the next section: for the narrow ω and ϕ resonances, they are negligible to
far better accuracy; symmetry arguments within the vector-meson nonet are not applicable
to their total widths. We will therefore simply omit the imaginary parts in the next section
and relate the C-odd ω couplings required for the model of the isoscalar parts of the form
factors to the real parts of the ρ coupling (of the same total isospin) only. Note furthermore
that Eqs. (3.33) and (3.36) still suggest the imaginary parts of gρπη and gρηη′ to be rather
small, such that the difference between real part and modulus, e.g., is negligible for our
purposes.
Hadronic long-range effects: the isoscalar contribution

We now attempt to combine the findings of Sects. 2.4.2 and 3.3. We wish to access the
couplings g̃, cf. Eq. (2.35), by linking them to the gρY X discussed in the last section. In
Sect. 2.4.2 we found a ToPeχPT operator that, when considered separately, allows us—
according to Eq. (2.32)—to relate these couplings by SU (3) symmetry. The vector-meson
√
couplings with the same total isospin are found to be related by gωπη = 1/ 3 gρηη′ and
√
gωηη′ = 3 gρπη , while gϕπη = 0 and gϕηη′ does not correlate with respective ρ couplings.
However, the predictive power of flavor symmetry arguments does not hold in general for
all operators. This leads to the shortcoming that we cannot fix the relative sign of the
couplings, which becomes evident when comparing Eqs. (2.31) and (2.32), and have to
rely on NDA arguments to consider that there may be additional contributions to the

– 20 –

couplings from linear combinations of Wilson coefficients, cf. Eq. (2.31). An alternative
√
√
approach would be to use NDA right away and drop the relative factors of 1/ 3 and 3,
respectively, but this still leads to the same caveats.
4.1

η → πℓ+ ℓ−

Possible contributions to the isoscalar form factor in η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− can originate from an ω
or a ϕ intermediate state. In accordance with Sect. 2.4.2, these enter the form factor in the
linear combination
gϕπη Mϕ
gωπη Mω2
(0)
Fηπ
(s) ≡
+
.
(4.1)
2gωγ Mω2 − s 2gϕγ Mϕ2 − s
With our SU (3) estimate gϕπη = 0 we can ignore the contribution of the ϕ. Dropping the
latter is also justified from an NDA point of view: the difference of the two summands in
(0)
Eq. (4.1) is negligible compared to the uncertainty of NDA if Fηπ (s) is evaluated within
the physical range. Therefore, we continue the estimation of the isoscalar contribution with
the ω intermediate state only, for which we use |gωγ | = 16.7(2) [86].
Relating gωπη to the ρ coupling of the same total isospin I = 1 and omitting the
imaginary part for the reasons given above, we find
gωπη ≈ √ Re gρηη′ = −0.49(1.36) GeV−2
or

|gωπη | ≲ 1.9 GeV−2 .

(4.2)

Throughout this manuscript we do not account for the numerically intangible uncertainties from our SU (3) estimates or NDA. As neither of the latter fixes the sign of |gωπη |,
we have to content ourselves with its absolute value.
Note that retaining the imaginary part of gρηη′ would have a negligible effect on the
upper limit for |gωπη |.
On the other hand, we can also place a bound on |gωπη | using the upper limit on the
branching ratio of ω → ηπ 0 as determined by the Crystal Ball multiphoton spectrometer
at the Mainz Microtron (MAMI) [88] and the Lagrangian in Eq. (2.29). The partial decay
width is found to be
Γ(ω → ηπ 0 ) =


|gωπη |2 λ3/2 Mω2 , Mη2 , Mπ20 .
192πMω

(4.3)

With BR(ω → ηπ 0 ) < 2.3 · 10−4 [88] and Γω = 8.68 MeV [42], we obtain the bound
|gωπη | < 0.24 GeV−2 ,

(4.4)

which is significantly more restrictive than the theoretical estimate for the bound on the
coupling inferred from gρηη′ .
4.2

η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ−

Similarly to the previous section, the isoscalar part of the form factor in η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− can
be written as
gϕηη′ Mϕ2
gωηη′ Mω2
(0)
+
.
(4.5)
Fη′ η (s) ≡
2gωγ Mω2 − s
2gϕγ Mϕ2 − s

– 21 –

With the same reasoning as above we henceforth drop the contribution of the ϕ and only
take the ω into account. The numerical result for the corresponding vector meson coupling,
which has total isospin I = 0, is
√
gωηη′ ≈ 3 Re gρπη = 0.43(0.69) GeV−2 or |gωηη′ | ≲ 1.1 GeV−2 .
(4.6)
Once more, the imaginary part of gρπη would yield just a minor contribution to the
upper limit on |gωηη′ | and can be neglected. We furthermore remark that the ρπη coupling
also has an isotensor component, which, however, has a negligible effect, cf. Eq. (3.33).
Results

With the theoretical apparatus at hand we are now able to predict upper limits on the
decay widths
Z (MX −MY )2



σℓ2 (s)
ds λ
σℓ (s) 1 −
|FXY (s)|2 ,
4m2ℓ
(5.1)
+
−
relying on the Dalitz-plot asymmetries in X → Y π π as the main input. As argued in
Sect. 2.5, we focus on the long-range contributions via hadronic intermediate states only,
i.e., we set
(1)
(0)
FXY (s) = FXY (s) + FXY (s) .
(5.2)
α2
Γ(X → Y ℓ ℓ ) =
8πMX
+ −

3/2
s, MX
, MY2



We disregard the contributions analyzed in Sects. 2.2 and 2.3 according to the discussion in
Sect. 2.5: these do not show interesting correlations with other ToPe processes, and absent
significant cancellations, we can study the consequences of limit setting for the long-range
hadronic effects alone. The corresponding transition form factors for the isovector and
isoscalar contributions to η → π 0 γ ∗ read
(1)
ε
ϑ
Fηπ
(s) = εFηπ
(s) + ϑFηπ
(s) ,

(0)
Fηπ
(s) =

gωπη Mω2
,
2gωγ Mω2 − s

(5.3)

gωηη′ Mω2
.
2gωγ Mω2 − s

(5.4)

while the ones contributing to η ′ → ηγ ∗ are
(1)

Fη′ η (s) = ϱFηϱ′ η (s) + ζFηζ′ η (s) ,

(0)

Fη′ η (s) =

(1)

The subtraction constants fixing the FXY are given in Eqs. (3.7) and (3.15), the respective
ν
basis solutions FXY
are depicted in Figs. 4 and 5, and the coupling constants gωY X entering
(0)
the FXY are quoted in Eqs. (4.4) and (4.6), respectively.
We have pointed out above that we have no means to assess the relative sign of the
isoscalar contribution. To determine theoretical upper bounds, we investigate the parameter
space spanned by the coupling constants and their uncertainties fixing
(0) 2
(1) 2
(0) (1)∗
|Fηπ |2 = |Fηπ
| + |Fηπ
| + 2 Re Fηπ
Fηπ

and similarly for Fη′ η .

– 22 –



(5.5)

5.1

η → πℓ+ ℓ−

Based on the splitting of the absolute square of the transition form factor given in Eq. (5.5),
the branching ratios Bη→π0 e+ e− and Bη→π0 µ+ µ− can be expressed in terms of the contributing BSM coupling constants g0 , g2 , and gωπη in the following way:

Bη→π0 e+ e− = 10−6 0.61 GeV12 g02 + 2.20 GeV8 g0 g2 + 1.99 GeV4 g22

+ 4.68 GeV8 g0 gωπη + 8.44 GeV4 g2 gωπη + 8.97 GeV4 gωπη
,
(5.6)

Bη→π0 µ+ µ− = 10−6 0.22 GeV12 g02 + 0.81 GeV8 g0 g2 + 0.76 GeV4 g22

+ 1.66 GeV8 g0 gωπη + 3.10 GeV4 g2 gωπη + 3.18 GeV4 gωπη
.
If we insert the maximum-range values g0 = (−2.8 − 4.5) GeV6 , g2 = (−9.3 − 4.6) ·
10−3 GeV−2 , and |gωπη | = 0.24 GeV−2 , cf. Sect. 3.1.1 and Eq. (4.4), in Eq. (5.6), we obtain
the following conservative limits:
Bη→π0 e+ e− < 33 · 10−6 ,

(1)

Bη→π0 e+ e− < 41 · 10−6 ,

exp
−6
Bη→π
,
0 e+ e− < 7.5 · 10

(1)

Bη→π0 µ+ µ− < 15 · 10−6 ,

exp
−6
Bη→π
.
0 µ+ µ− < 5 · 10

Bη→π0 µ+ µ− < 12 · 10−6 ,

(5.7)

Here the first entry in each line corresponds to the isovector contribution and the second
includes the isoscalar one in addition. Finally, the experimental results [19, 21], to be
understood at 90% C.L., are quoted last (cf. Table 1), which are smaller than our findings
by a factor 5.5 and 3, respectively. The isovector contributions to the respective form factors
and differential decay widths for the decay η → πℓ+ ℓ− are shown in Fig. 6. If the area
enclosed by the error bands of the differential decay distribution is integrated, compatible
but somewhat less conservative limit values result.
Assuming that the other two coupling constants are negligible, the relations (5.6) can
be used to derive upper bounds for, respectively, one of the three BSM coupling constants
from the experimental limits of the branching ratios listed in Table 1. In the same table,
the Standard-Model predictions for the dilepton branching ratios based on the C-even twophoton mechanism [17] can be found. These can be used to calculate the lower threshold
for the aforementioned coupling constants, at which the BSM scenario would no longer
dominate the Standard-Model case. The upper bounds and the lower thresholds, which we
refer to as sensitivities for the sake of simplicity, are listed in the third and fourth columns
of Table 2, respectively. The values to the left of the vertical bar refer to the case of e+ e−
dileptons, while the values to the right describe the results of the µ+ µ− case. In addition,
we also list the empirical values of g0 and g2 , derived via the η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz-plot
asymmetries in Ref. [2], and the upper experimental bound (4.4) of |gωπη |, derived from the
partial decay width Γ(ω → ηπ 0 ) [88], in the second column of Table 2.
The empirical hadronic values of g0 and gωπη are approximately of the same order of
magnitude as the upper bounds calculated according to Eq. (5.6). In contrast, the upper
bound from Eq. (5.6) is not competitive at all in the case of g2 , since it is more than two
orders of magnitude larger than the (modulus of the) empirical value. Moreover, the latter

– 23 –
0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0
0

-2

-4

-6
0

0.05

0.10
0.15
4
2
0
2
6
Figure 6: Spectrum of the isovector contribution to the form factor (top) and the corresponding differential decay distribution (bottom) for η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− . The dashed lines
mark the respective upper and lower limits stemming from the uncertainties of the subtraction constants in Eq. (3.7). The physical ranges are in both cases restricted by
4m2ℓ ≤ s ≤ (Mη − Mπ )2 .
is even smaller than the SM sensitivity for both decays η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− , ℓ = e, µ. Therefore,
these decays cannot be used to further constrain this parameter of C-odd, P -even η decays.
When making such comparisons, it must be kept in mind that the calculations of the
upper bounds and lower threshold values are based on the strict assumption that the other
two couplings are negligible. Should one of these three coupling constants be different from

– 24 –

BSM/hadronic

Empirical values via

Limits derived in (5.6)

Sensitivities in (5.6)

coupl. constants

hadronic constraints

from exp. bounds

from SM predictions

g0

[GeV−6 ]

−2.8(4.5) [2]

(3.5 | 4.8)

(5.0 | 5.8) · 10−2

g2

[GeV−2 ]

−9.3(4.6) · 10−3 [2]

(1.9 | 2.6)

(2.8 | 3.1) · 10−2

|gωπη | [GeV−2 ]

0.24 [88]

(0.9 | 1.3)

(1.3 | 1.5) · 10−2

Table 2: Empirical values, upper limits, and lower thresholds (sensitivities) of the BSM
hadronic coupling constants g0 , g2 , and (the modulus of) gωπη , derived (i) from the η →
π 0 π + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetries of Ref. [2] and the empirical partial width of the decay ω →
ηπ 0 [88], (ii) from the experimental upper bounds on the branching ratios Bη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− given
in Table 1 for the dilepton pairs (e+ e− | µ+ µ− ), as calculated with aid of the relations (5.6)
assuming that the other two coupling constants are vanishingly small, and (iii) as in (ii),
but from the SM predictions listed in Table 1.
zero, it would be very unlikely that none of the other two should play any role.
In summary, the considered experiments for η → π 0 π + π − and η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− have a
quite similar sensitivity for ToPe forces of total isospin 0 as exemplified by the coupling
g0 , despite the fact that asymmetries in the former are based on C-odd interferences and
therefore scale linearly with a (small) BSM coupling [1, 4], while the latter is a rate that
is suppressed to second order in a similar coupling. This is not so much due to a high
sensitivity of the semi-leptonic decays, but rather to the strong suppression of g0 in the
(1)
η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz plot. Comparing Bη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− to Bη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− , our analysis suggests that
the isoscalar form factor contributes roughly one quarter to the overall branching ratio.
This reflects the more rigorous bound on the ω → ηπ 0 coupling, cf. Eq. (4.4), compared to
the limits inferred from the η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetries for the isovector part of
the form factor.
As the experimental limits turn out to be more restrictive than our theoretical predic(1)
tions for Bη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− , the empirical η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− decay widths [19, 21] can be used to refine
the fit to the η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz plot [79]. As long as the latter constrains the corresponding BSM couplings in a way that the form factor is dominated by the contribution of g0 ,
an improved regression to the full Dalitz plot is redundant. Instead we note that isoscalar
(g0 ) and isotensor (g2 ) couplings in η → π 0 π + π − are nearly uncorrelated [2] and turn the
(1)
experimental limit for Bη→π0 e+ e− into the upper bound in Table 2,
|g0 | < 3.5 GeV−6 ,
to be compared to the previous constraint g0 = −2.8(4.5) GeV−6 [2].

– 25 –

(5.8)

5.2

η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ−

Proceeding in analogy to Sect. 5.1, we obtain the following relations for the branching ratios
in explicit dependence on the BSM couplings g1 , δg1 , and gωηη′ :

Bη′ →ηe+ e− = 10−8 0.23 GeV4 g12 + 2.14 GeV6 g12 δg1 + 5.66 GeV8 g12 δg12

− 3.35 GeV4 g1 gωηη′ − 17.76 GeV6 g1 δg1 gωηη′ + 13.95 GeV4 gωηη
,
′

Bη′ →ηµ+ µ− = 10−8 0.13 GeV4 g12 + 1.05 GeV6 g12 δg1 + 2.25 GeV8 g12 δg12

− 1.62 GeV4 g1 gωηη′ − 6.98 GeV6 g1 δg1 gωηη′ + 5.43 GeV4 gωηη
.
′
(5.9)
−2
−4
If the maximum-range values g1 = (0.7 + 1.0) GeV , g1 δg1 = (−3.9 − 10.5) GeV (interpreted as one effective coupling constant),7 and gωηη′ = (0.43 + 0.69) GeV−2 , cf. Sect. 3.1.2
and Eq. (4.6), are inserted in Eq. (5.9), the conservative estimates of the upper limits for
the decays η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− are8
Bη′ →ηe+ e− < 11 · 10−6 ,

(1)

Bη′ →ηe+ e− < 14 · 10−6 ,

−3
,
Bηexp
′ →ηe+ e− < 2.4 · 10

(1)

Bη′ →ηµ+ µ− < 5.6 · 10−6 ,

−6
Bηexp
.
′ →ηµ+ µ− < 15 · 10

Bη′ →ηµ+ µ− < 4.4 · 10−6 ,

(5.10)

For these decays, our approximation for the isoscalar form factor loosens the limit on the
isovector part by roughly a quarter. A depiction of the latter contribution to the form factor
and differential decay width is given in Fig. 7. In contrast to the findings for Bη→π0 ℓ+ ℓ− ,
our limits on Bη′ →ηℓ+ ℓ− are more restrictive than the respective experimental ones.
Assuming that the other two coupling constants are negligible, the relations (5.9) can
also be used to derive upper bounds for one of the three BSM coupling constants at a time,
where the product g1 δg1 can be non-zero even if g1 itself is negligible. The experimental
limits of the branching ratios and the Standard-Model predictions for the dilepton branching
ratios based on the C-even two-photon mechanism [17] are taken from Table 1. Again the
latter are used to calculate the lower threshold for the above-mentioned coupling constants
at which the BSM scenario would no longer dominate the Standard Model. The upper
bounds and the lower thresholds (sensitivities) are listed in the third and fourth columns of
the Table 3, respectively. In the second column of Table 3, we list the empirical values of g1 ,
of the product g1 δg1 , both derived via the η ′ → ηπ + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetries in Ref. [3],
and of gωηη′ , indirectly calculated via Eq. (3.33) and Eq. (4.6) from the corresponding
η → π 0 π + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetries [2, 3].
The empirical path via the η ′ → ηπ + π − Dalitz-plot asymmetries and Eq. (4.6) to
determine the BSM coupling constants is clearly preferable to the upper limit from the experimental bounds on the η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− decays, but still compatible with the lower thresholds
Note that the errors on g1 and g1 δg1 are almost perfectly anticorrelated [2, 3].
For these branching ratios we use the total width Γη′ = 0.23 MeV listed as PDG average in Ref. [42].
Again the experimental branching ratios [19, 20] are to be understood at 90% C.L., cf. Table 1, and the
isovector part is designated with the upper index (1).
– 26 –
0.4

0.8

1.2

1.6
20
60
2.0
2
0

-1

-2

1.4
0.05

0.10
0.15

1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
2
6
Figure 7: Spectrum of the isovector contribution to the form factor (top) and the corresponding differential decay distribution (bottom) for η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− . The dashed lines
mark the respective upper and lower limits stemming from the uncertainties of the subtraction constants in Eq. (3.15). The physical ranges are in both cases restricted by
4m2ℓ ≤ s ≤ (Mη′ − Mη )2 .
from the C-even two-photon process of the Standard Model. However, the gaps between
the empirical values and lower thresholds are smaller than in the η cases, especially for g1 .

– 27 –

BSM/hadronic

Empirical values via

Limits derived in (5.9)

Sensitivities in (5.9)

coupl. constants

hadronic constraints

from exp. bounds

from SM predictions

[GeV−2 ]

0.7(1.0) [3]

(1000| 110)

(0.49 | 0.45)

g1 δg1 [GeV−4 ]

−3.9(10.5) [3]

(210 | 26)

(0.10 | 0.11)

gωηη′ [GeV−2 ]

0.43(0.69) Eq. (4.6)

(130 | 17)

(0.062 | 0.069)

g1

Table 3: Empirical values, upper limits, and lower thresholds (sensitivities) of the BSM
hadronic coupling constants g1 , g1 δg1 , and gωηη′ , derived (i) from the η ′ → ηπ + π − Dalitzplot asymmetries of Ref. [3] or computed from Eq. (4.6), (ii) from the experimental upper
bounds on the branching ratios Bη′ →ηℓ+ ℓ− given in Table 1 for the (e+ e− | µ+ µ− ) dilepton
pairs, as calculated using the relations (5.9) assuming that the other two coupling constants
are vanishingly small, and (iii) as in (ii), but from the SM predictions listed in Table 1.
Summary and outlook

In this work, we have studied the C- and CP -violating decays η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− and η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− ,
which can—from a phenomenological point of view—be driven by three different mechanisms. The first two of these are short-distance contributions induced by semi-leptonic
four-point vertices and long-distance contributions caused by C- and CP -odd photon–
hadron couplings. The only statements we can make about them is that they contribute as
constants to respective transition form factors at leading order in ToPeχPT [4], that they
cannot be distinguished by a sole measurement of the semi-leptonic decay widths, and that
NDA estimates them to be of the same order of magnitude.
In contrast, the third mechanism, i.e., long-distance contributions induced by hadronic
intermediate states, is conceptually more insightful. To access these contributions we have
established dispersion relations for the isovector contribution to the transition form factors
η(→ π 0 π + π − ) → π 0 γ ∗ and η ′ (→ ηπ + π − ) → ηγ ∗ . By construction, these form factors meet
the fundamental requirements of analyticity and unitarity, solely relying on the dominant
hadronic contribution of the P -waves in the C- and CP -odd η → π 0 π + π − and η ′ → ηπ + π −
amplitudes, which have been worked out in Refs. [2, 3]. The non-perturbative predictions
thereby obtained allow us to directly investigate the correlation between C-violating signals
in different decays in a model-independent manner. By an analytic continuation of the Codd η → π 0 π + π − and η ′ → ηπ + π − P -wave amplitudes to the second Riemann sheet,
we have extracted C-odd ρ-meson couplings to ηπ 0 and η ′ η. These two couplings can be
related by total isospin and NDA to coupling constants entering the isoscalar contribution
in a VMD model for η ′ → ηω → ηγ ∗ and η → π 0 ω → π 0 γ ∗ , respectively. However,
the ω → ηπ 0 coupling could be bounded more precisely from the empirical limit on the
corresponding partial width.
Accounting for these hadronic long-range effects only, we have predicted the corresponding upper limits on the semi-leptonic decay widths, relying on ToPe forces in the
respective purely hadronic three-body decays as input. We observed that the currently

– 28 –

most precise measurements of η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− have a similar sensitivity to isoscalar ToPe interactions as the measured Dalitz-plot asymmetries in η → π 0 π + π − , despite their different
scaling with small BSM couplings. As we found the experimental limits for η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− to
be more restrictive than our theoretically predicted ones, we were able to use the respective
transition form factor as a constraint to sharpen the bounds on C violation in η → π 0 π + π − .
On the other hand, both the isotensor coupling for C-odd η decays and the corresponding
η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− effects are more rigorously constrained indirectly from Dalitz-plot asymmetries.
Finally, we have determined the best possible sensitivity to all C-odd hadronic couplings
in semi-leptonic decays due to the Standard-Model background.
Given the relatively loose experimental bounds, we have largely eschewed concrete
estimates of theoretical uncertainties in our limit setting. The dispersion relation used to
connect hadronic and semi-leptonic decays are expected to work extremely well in the elastic
approximation, with two-pion intermediate states only, for the relevant vector-isovector
channel: comparable sum rules for SM processes typically work to better than 10% [37, 63].
This is the relevant accuracy for the relation between both types of C-odd effects. Neglected
higher-order corrections in the chiral or large-Nc expansions, which may easily amount to
30% or so, only affect the interpretation of effective coupling constants on the mesonic level
in terms of underlying LEFT or SMEFT operators [4].
Further perspectives on the decays η → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− and η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− could be opened
by possible future measurements of the respective Dalitz-plot distributions. This would
allow us to investigate actual C- and CP -odd observables, the Dalitz-plot asymmetries
arising from the interference with the respective SM contributions. Such interference effects would, as the asymmetries in the hadronic η and η ′ decays, scale linearly with BSM
couplings, however with likely less advantage in sensitivity due to the strongly suppressed
SM amplitudes. Significant asymmetries can only be expected if, accidentally, C-even and
-odd amplitudes happen to be of similar size. Still, due to synergy effects with other BSM
searches in these decays, such as for weakly coupled light scalars [8], renewed experimental
efforts are strongly encouraged.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Danny van Dyk for useful discussions. Financial support by the
Avicenna-Studienwerk e.V. with funds from the BMBF, as well as by the DFG (CRC 110,
“Symmetries and the Emergence of Structure in QCD”), is gratefully acknowledged.

References
[1] S. Gardner and J. Shi, Patterns of CP violation from mirror symmetry breaking in the
η → π + π − π 0 Dalitz plot, Phys. Rev. D 101 (2020) 115038 [1903.11617].
[2] H. Akdag, T. Isken and B. Kubis, Patterns of C- and CP-violation in hadronic η and η’
three-body decays, JHEP 02 (2022) 137 [Erratum JHEP 12 (2022) 156] [2111.02417].
[3] M.H. Akdag, C and CP Violation in Light-Meson Decays, Ph.D. thesis, U. Bonn, HISKP,
2023. doi:10.48565/bonndoc-168.

– 29 –

[4] H. Akdag, B. Kubis and A. Wirzba, C and CP violation in effective field theories, JHEP 06
(2023) 154 [2212.07794].
[5] J. Shi, Theoretical Studies of C and CP Violation in η → π + π − π 0 Decay, Ph.D. thesis,
Kentucky U., 2017. doi:10.13023/etd.2020.388.
[6] S. Gardner and J. Shi, Leading-dimension, effective operators with CP and C or P violation
in Standard Model effective field theory, to be published, 2024.
[7] J.J. Sakurai, Invariance principles and elementary particles, Princeton University Press,
Princeton (1964), doi:10.1515/9781400877874.
[8] L. Gan, B. Kubis, E. Passemar and S. Tulin, Precision tests of fundamental physics with η
and η ′ mesons, Phys. Rept. 945 (2022) 2191 [2007.00664].
[9] J. Bernstein, G. Feinberg and T.D. Lee, Possible C, T Noninvariance in the Electromagnetic
Interaction, Phys. Rev. 139 (1965) B1650.
[10] B. Barrett, M. Jacob, M. Nauenberg and T.N. Truong, Consequences of C-Violating
Interactions in η 0 and X 0 Decays, Phys. Rev. 141 (1966) 1342.
[11] C.H. Llewellyn Smith, The Decay η → π 0 e+ e− with C Conservation, Nuovo Cim. A 48
(1967) 834 [Erratum Nuovo Cim. A 50 (1967) 374].
[12] T.P. Cheng, C-Conserving Decay η → π 0 e+ e− in a Vector-Meson-Dominant Model, Phys.
Rev. 162 (1967) 1734.
[13] J. Smith, C-Conserving Decay Modes η → π 0 e+ e− and η → π 0 µ+ µ− , Phys. Rev. 166 (1968)
1629.
[14] J.N. Ng and D.J. Peters, Decay of the η meson into πµ+ µ− , Phys. Rev. D 46 (1992) 5034.
[15] J.N. Ng and D.J. Peters, Study of η → π 0 γγ decay using the quark-box diagram, Phys. Rev.
D 47 (1993) 4939.
[16] R. Escribano and E. Royo, A theoretical analysis of the semileptonic decays η (′) → π 0 l+ l−
and η ′ → ηl+ l− , Eur. Phys. J. C 80 (2020) 1190 [Erratum Eur. Phys. J. C 82 (2022) 743]
[2007.12467].
[17] H. Schäfer, M. Zanke, Y. Korte and B. Kubis, The semileptonic decays η (′) → π 0 ℓ+ ℓ− and
η ′ → ηℓ+ ℓ− in the standard model, Phys. Rev. D 108 (2023) 074025 [2307.10357].
[18] R. Escribano, E. Royo and P. Sánchez-Puertas, New-physics signatures via CP violation in
η (′) → π 0 µ+ µ− and η ′ → ηµ+ µ− decays, JHEP 05 (2022) 147 [2202.04886].
[19] R.I. Dzhelyadin et al., Search for Rare Decays of η and η ′ Mesons and for Light Higgs
Particles, Phys. Lett. B 105 (1981) 239.
[20] CLEO collaboration, Search for rare and forbidden η ′ decays, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84 (2000) 26
[hep-ex/9907046].
[21] WASA-at-COSY collaboration, Search for C violation in the decay η → π 0 e+ e− with
WASA-at-COSY, Phys. Lett. B 784 (2018) 378 [1802.08642].
[22] L. Gan and A. Gasparian, Search of new physics via eta rare decays, PoS CD09 (2009) 048.
[23] GlueX collaboration, L. Gan et al., “Eta Decays with Emphasis on Rare Neutral Modes:
The JLab Eta Factory (JEF) Experiment.”
https://www.jlab.org/exp_prog/proposals/14/PR12-14-004.pdf, 2014.

– 30 –

[24] L. Gan, Probes for Fundamental QCD Symmetries and a Dark Gauge Boson via Light
Meson Decays, PoS CD15 (2015) 017.
[25] GlueX collaboration, L. Gan et al., “Update to the JEF proposal.”
https://www.jlab.org/exp_prog/proposals/17/C12-14-004.pdf, 2017.
[26] REDTOP collaboration, The REDTOP project: Rare Eta Decays with a TPC for Optical
Photons, PoS ICHEP2016 (2016) 812.
[27] REDTOP collaboration, The REDTOP experiment, 1910.08505.
[28] REDTOP collaboration, The REDTOP experiment: Rare η/η ′ Decays To Probe New
Physics, 2203.07651.
[29] G. D’Ambrosio and G. Isidori, CP violation in kaon decays, Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 13 (1998) 1
[hep-ph/9611284].
[30] G. D’Ambrosio, G. Ecker, G. Isidori and J. Portoles, The Decays K → πl+ l− beyond leading
order in the chiral expansion, JHEP 08 (1998) 004 [hep-ph/9808289].
[31] E.P. Shabalin, Electric Dipole Moment of Quark in a Gauge Theory with Left-Handed
Currents, Sov. J. Nucl. Phys. 28 (1978) 75.
[32] I.B. Khriplovich, Quark Electric Dipole Moment and Induced θ Term in the
Kobayashi-Maskawa Model, Phys. Lett. B 173 (1986) 193.
[33] A. Czarnecki and B. Krause, Neutron electric dipole moment in the standard model: Valence
quark contributions, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78 (1997) 4339 [hep-ph/9704355].
[34] M. Pospelov and A. Ritz, Electric dipole moments as probes of new physics, Annals Phys.
318 (2005) 119 [hep-ph/0504231].
[35] BESIII collaboration, Amplitude Analysis of the Decays η ′ → π + π − π 0 and η ′ → π 0 π 0 π 0 ,
Phys. Rev. Lett. 118 (2017) 012001 [1606.03847].
[36] G. Köpp, Dispersion calculation of the transition form factor fπωγ (t) with cut contributions,
Phys. Rev. D 10 (1974) 932.
[37] S.P. Schneider, B. Kubis and F. Niecknig, The ω → π 0 γ ∗ and ϕ → π 0 γ ∗ transition form
factors in dispersion theory, Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 054013 [1206.3098].
[38] I.V. Danilkin, C. Fernández-Ramírez, P. Guo, V. Mathieu, D. Schott, M. Shi et al.,
Dispersive analysis of ω/ϕ → 3π, π 0 γ, Phys. Rev. D 91 (2015) 094029 [1409.7708].
[39] B. Kubis and F. Niecknig, Analysis of the J/ψ → π 0 γ ∗ transition form factor, Phys. Rev. D
91 (2015) 036004 [1412.5385].
[40] JPAC collaboration, ω → 3π and ωπ 0 transition form factor revisited, Eur. Phys. J. C 80
(2020) 1107 [2006.01058].
[41] B. Kubis and R. Schmidt, Radiative corrections in K → πℓ+ ℓ− decays, Eur. Phys. J. C 70
(2010) 219 [1007.1887].
[42] Particle Data Group collaboration, Review of Particle Physics, PTEP 2022 (2022)
083C01.
[43] R. García-Martín, R. Kamiński, J.R. Peláez and J. Ruiz de Elvira, Precise determination of
the f0 (600) and f0 (980) pole parameters from a dispersive data analysis, Phys. Rev. Lett.
107 (2011) 072001 [1107.1635].
[44] P. Sánchez-Puertas, CP violation in η muonic decays, JHEP 01 (2019) 031 [1810.13228].

– 31 –

[45] T. Feldmann, Quark structure of pseudoscalar mesons, Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 15 (2000) 159
[hep-ph/9907491].
[46] R. Kaiser and H. Leutwyler, Large Nc in chiral perturbation theory, Eur. Phys. J. C 17
(2000) 623 [hep-ph/0007101].
[47] R. Escribano and J.-M. Frere, Study of the η–η ′ system in the two mixing angle scheme,
JHEP 06 (2005) 029 [hep-ph/0501072].
[48] I.B. Khriplovich, What do we know about T odd but P even interaction?, Nucl. Phys. B 352
(1991) 385.
[49] R.S. Conti and I.B. Khriplovich, New limits on T odd, P even interactions, Phys. Rev. Lett.
68 (1992) 3262.
[50] J. Engel, P.H. Frampton and R.P. Springer, Effective Lagrangians and parity conserving time
reversal violation at low-energies, Phys. Rev. D 53 (1996) 5112 [nucl-th/9505026].
[51] M.J. Ramsey-Musolf, Electric dipole moments and the mass scale of new T violating, P
conserving interactions, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 (1999) 3997 [Erratum Phys. Rev. Lett. 84 (2000)
5681] [hep-ph/9905429].
[52] A. Kurylov, G.C. McLaughlin and M.J. Ramsey-Musolf, Constraints on T odd, P even
interactions from electric dipole moments, revisited, Phys. Rev. D 63 (2001) 076007
[hep-ph/0011185].
[53] R. Omnès, On the Solution of certain singular integral equations of quantum field theory,
Nuovo Cim. 8 (1958) 316.
[54] V.L. Chernyak and A.R. Zhitnitsky, Asymptotic Behavior of Hadron Form-Factors in Quark
Model. (In Russian), JETP Lett. 25 (1977) 510.
[55] V.L. Chernyak and A.R. Zhitnitsky, Asymptotics of Hadronic Form-Factors in the Quantum
Chromodynamics. (In Russian), Sov. J. Nucl. Phys. 31 (1980) 544.
[56] A.V. Efremov and A.V. Radyushkin, Asymptotical Behavior of Pion Electromagnetic
Form-Factor in QCD, Theor. Math. Phys. 42 (1980) 97.
[57] A.V. Efremov and A.V. Radyushkin, Factorization and Asymptotical Behavior of Pion
Form-Factor in QCD, Phys. Lett. B 94 (1980) 245.
[58] G.R. Farrar and D.R. Jackson, The Pion Form-Factor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 43 (1979) 246.
[59] G.P. Lepage and S.J. Brodsky, Exclusive Processes in Quantum Chromodynamics: Evolution
Equations for Hadronic Wave Functions and the Form-Factors of Mesons, Phys. Lett. B 87
(1979) 359.
[60] G.P. Lepage and S.J. Brodsky, Exclusive Processes in Perturbative Quantum
Chromodynamics, Phys. Rev. D 22 (1980) 2157.
[61] H. Leutwyler, Electromagnetic form factor of the pion, hep-ph/0212324.
[62] B. Ananthanarayan, I. Caprini and I.S. Imsong, Implications of the recent high statistics
determination of the pion electromagnetic form factor in the timelike region, Phys. Rev. D
83 (2011) 096002 [1102.3299].
[63] C. Hanhart, S. Holz, B. Kubis, A. Kupść, A. Wirzba and C.-W. Xiao, The branching ratio
ω → π + π − revisited, Eur. Phys. J. C 77 (2017) 98 [Erratum Eur. Phys. J. C 78 (2018) 450]
[1611.09359].

– 32 –

[64] B. Lee, Chiral dynamics, Cargese Lect. Phys. 5 (1972) 119.
[65] O. Kaymakcalan and J. Schechter, Chiral Lagrangian of Pseudoscalars and Vectors, Phys.
Rev. D 31 (1985) 1109.
[66] U.-G. Meißner, Low-Energy Hadron Physics from Effective Chiral Lagrangians with Vector
Mesons, Phys. Rept. 161 (1988) 213.
[67] P. Jain, R. Johnson, U.-G. Meißner, N.W. Park and J. Schechter, Realistic Pseudoscalar
Vector Chiral Lagrangian and Its Soliton Excitations, Phys. Rev. D 37 (1988) 3252.
[68] F. Klingl, N. Kaiser and W. Weise, Effective Lagrangian approach to vector mesons, their
structure and decays, Z. Phys. A 356 (1996) 193 [hep-ph/9607431].
[69] M. Mai, U.-G. Meißner and C. Urbach, Towards a theory of hadron resonances, Phys. Rept.
1001 (2023) 1 [2206.01477].
[70] V. Bernard, N. Kaiser and U.-G. Meißner, πη scattering in QCD, Phys. Rev. D 44 (1991)
3698.
[71] B. Kubis and S.P. Schneider, The Cusp effect in η ′ → ηππ decays, Eur. Phys. J. C 62 (2009)
511 [0904.1320].
[72] JPAC collaboration, Determination of the pole position of the lightest hybrid meson
candidate, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 (2019) 042002 [1810.04171].
[73] N.N. Khuri and S.B. Treiman, Pion–Pion Scattering and K ± → 3π Decay, Phys. Rev. 119
(1960) 1115.
[74] J. Stern, H. Sazdjian and N.H. Fuchs, What π-π scattering tells us about chiral perturbation
theory, Phys. Rev. D 47 (1993) 3814 [hep-ph/9301244].
[75] B. Ananthanarayan and P. Büttiker, Comparison of πK scattering in SU(3) chiral
perturbation theory and dispersion relations, Eur. Phys. J. C 19 (2001) 517
[hep-ph/0012023].
[76] M. Zdráhal and J. Novotný, Dispersive Approach to Chiral Perturbation Theory, Phys. Rev.
D 78 (2008) 116016 [0806.4529].
[77] G. Colangelo, S. Lanz, H. Leutwyler and E. Passemar, Dispersive analysis of η → 3π, Eur.
Phys. J. C 78 (2018) 947 [1807.11937].
[78] BESIII collaboration, Precision measurement of the matrix elements for η → π + π − π 0 and
η → π 0 π 0 π 0 decays, Phys. Rev. D 107 (2023) 092007 [2302.08282].
[79] KLOE-2 collaboration, Precision measurement of the η → π + π − π 0 Dalitz plot distribution
with the KLOE detector, JHEP 05 (2016) 019 [1601.06985].
[80] I. Caprini, G. Colangelo and H. Leutwyler, Regge analysis of the ππ scattering amplitude,
Eur. Phys. J. C 72 (2012) 1860 [1111.7160].
[81] T. Isken, B. Kubis, S.P. Schneider and P. Stoffer, Dispersion relations for η ′ → ηππ, Eur.
Phys. J. C 77 (2017) 489 [1705.04339].
[82] M. Albaladejo and B. Moussallam, Form factors of the isovector scalar current and the ηπ
scattering phase shifts, Eur. Phys. J. C 75 (2015) 488 [1507.04526].
[83] J. Lu and B. Moussallam, The πη interaction and a0 resonances in photon–photon
scattering, Eur. Phys. J. C 80 (2020) 436 [2002.04441].

– 33 –

[84] BESIII collaboration, Measurement of the matrix elements for the decays η ′ → ηπ + π − and
η ′ → ηπ 0 π 0 , Phys. Rev. D 97 (2018) 012003 [1709.04627].
[85] B. Moussallam, Couplings of light I = 0 scalar mesons to simple operators in the complex
plane, Eur. Phys. J. C 71 (2011) 1814 [1110.6074].
[86] M. Hoferichter, B. Kubis and M. Zanke, Radiative resonance couplings in γπ → ππ, Phys.
Rev. D 96 (2017) 114016 [1710.00824].
[87] G. Colangelo, J. Gasser and H. Leutwyler, ππ scattering, Nucl. Phys. B 603 (2001) 125
[hep-ph/0103088].
[88] A. Starostin et al., Search for the charge-conjugation-forbidden decay ω → ηπ 0 , Phys. Rev. C
79 (2009) 065201.

– 34 –
