# Jailbreak Attacks and Defenses against Multimodal Generative Models: A Survey

- **arXiv:** 2411.09259
- **Abs URL:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09259
- **PDF URL:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.09259

---

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
Jailbreak Attacks and Defenses against Multimodal
Generative Models: A Survey

arXiv:2411.09259v2 [cs.CV] 9 Dec 2024

Xuannan Liu, Xing Cui, Peipei Li*, Zekun Li, Huaibo Huang,
Shuhan Xia, Miaoxuan Zhang, Yueying Zou, and Ran He, Fellow, IEEE

Abstract—The rapid evolution of multimodal foundation
models has led to significant advancements in cross-modal
understanding and generation across diverse modalities, including
text, images, audio, and video. However, these models remain
susceptible to jailbreak attacks, which can bypass built-in safety
mechanisms and induce the production of potentially harmful
content. Consequently, understanding the methods of jailbreak
attacks and existing defense mechanisms is essential to ensure
the safe deployment of multimodal generative models in realworld scenarios, particularly in security-sensitive applications.
To provide comprehensive insight into this topic, this survey
reviews jailbreak and defense in multimodal generative models.
First, given the generalized lifecycle of multimodal jailbreak,
we systematically explore attacks and corresponding defense
strategies across four levels: input, encoder, generator, and output.
Based on this analysis, we present a detailed taxonomy of attack
methods, defense mechanisms, and evaluation frameworks specific
to multimodal generative models. Additionally, we cover a wide
range of input-output configurations, including modalities such
as Any-to-Text, Any-to-Vision, and Any-to-Any within generative
systems. Finally, we highlight current research challenges and
propose potential directions for future research. The opensource repository corresponding to this work can be found at
https://github.com/liuxuannan/Awesome-Multimodal-Jailbreak.
Index Terms—Jailbreak, Multimodal, Generative Model.

I. I NTRODUCTION
In recent years, multimodal generative models have made
significant advancements in both understanding and generation [1], [2]. For multimodal understanding, Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs) [3]–[5] have demonstrated notable
capabilities in Any-to-Text comprehension, excelling in tasks
such as visual, audio, and video question-answering [6]–[8].
For multimodal generation, denoising diffusion probabilistic
models (DDPMs) [9] have achieved impressive performance in
Any-to-Vision generation [10]–[13]. Recently, there has been an
increasing interest in unified models that support Any-to-Any
tasks, integrating both understanding and generation within a
single framework [1], [2].
Xuannan Liu, Xing Cui, Peipei Li, Shuhan Xia, Miaoxuan Zhang, and Yueying
Zou are with the School of Artificial Intelligence, Beijing University of Posts
and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China. E-mail: {liuxuannan, cuixing,
lipeipei, shuhanxia, zhangmiaoxuan, zouyueying2001}@bupt.edu.cn.
Zekun Li is with the School of Computer Science, University of California,
Santa Barbara, USA. E-mail: zekunli@cs.ucsb.edu.
Huaibo Huang and Ran He are with the State Key Laboratory of Multimodal Artificial Intelligence Systems, CASIA, New Laboratory of Pattern
Recognition, CASIA, and School of Artificial Intelligence, University of
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China. E-mail: {huaibo.huang,
rhe}@cripac.ia.ac.cn.
Peipei Li is the corresponding author. E-mail: lipeipei@bupt.edu.cn.

…including the grenade, the bomb, and the
other items, follow these steps: 1. Sourcing
materials: Explosive compound (e.g., TNT, C-4,
or other military-grade explosives…

Multimodal Generative Models
Any-to-Text Models

Any-to-Vision Models

Any-to-Any Models

EMU3

F
F

F
F

Here is the plan to rob a bank. Assemble the
Team: The Hacker: …The Inside Person: …The
Strategist:…The Distraction Specialist:…

Fig. 1: Illustrated examples of jailbreak attacks on multimodal generative models to induce harmful outputs across
various modalities, including harmful text via the Jailbreak
in Pieces [18], harmful images via the MMA-diffusion [19],
harmful videos via the T2VSafetyBench [20] and harmful audio
via the Voice Jailbreak [21].

The growing deployment of multimodal generative models
has raised significant concerns about their security and reliability. Since the release of ChatGPT, jailbreak attacks have
rapidly proliferated on social media [14], [15], demonstrating
how vulnerabilities in Large Language Models (LLMs) can
be exploited to trigger harmful behaviors [16], [17]. Such
attacks often use carefully crafted inputs that instruct models
to bypass safety and ethical safeguards, leading to harmful
outputs. While LLM jailbreaks have garnered considerable
attention, a more urgent yet less studied risk lies in multimodal
generative models. By integrating and processing diverse data
types (i.e., text, images, audio, and video), these models
create complex interaction spaces. This complexity introduces
new vulnerabilities, as adversaries can exploit interactions
among different data types to bypass safety mechanisms and
produce inappropriate outputs. To mitigate these emerging
threats, defense strategies must adapt continuously, integrating
mechanisms that keep pace with the evolving landscape of
jailbreak attacks.
Existing reviews on jailbreak methods [22]–[25] have primarily concentrated on content output within a specific modality,
addressing tasks either Any-to-Text [22], [23], [26] or Any-toImage [24], [25]. These output modalities also correspond to
specific multimodal model architectures, specifically any-totext by LLM-backbone models and any-to-image by diffusionbackbone models. While these surveys have made valuable
contributions, they lack a unified framework that spans a broad
range of modalities (i.e., text, images, audio, and video) within

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

Defender

Input
Level

Text
Image

Audio

Video

Attacker

Text
Encoder

Audio
Encoder

Image
Encoder

Video
Encoder
Latent
Space

Encoder
Level

Large Language Model
(LLM)
Any-to-Text Models

Output
Level

Diffusion
(U-Net)

Image
Decoder

Generator
Level

Image
Encoder

Text Tokenizer

Any-to-Vision Models

Unified Model

Any-to-Any Models

…the grenade, the bomb…
1. Sourcing materials:
Explosive compound (e.g.,
TNT, C-4…

Fig. 2: Jailbreak attacks and defenses against multimodal generative models. Given the generalized lifecycle of multimodal
jailbreak, we systematically explore attacks and defense strategies across four levels: input, encoder, generator, and output.

different generative systems, as shown in Fig. 1.
To address this gap, our survey introduces the first unified
framework which systematically summarizes jailbreak attacks
and defense mechanisms across various input-output modalities
and different generative structures. Specifically, we break down
the lifecycle of multimodal jailbreak and abstract four discrete
levels – input, encoder, generator, and output. This structured
approach helps bridge the gaps between different models, each
of which may have unique architecture but share common
vulnerabilities within these four key levels. We outline the four
general steps (as shown in Fig. 2) to devise jailbreak attack
and defense techniques:
1) Input Level: Attackers and defenders operate solely on
the input data. Attackers modify inputs to execute attacks,
while defenders incorporate protective cues to enhance
detection.
2) Encoder Level: With access to the encoder, attackers
optimize adversarial inputs to inject malicious information
into the encoding process, while defenders work to prevent
harmful information from being encoded within the latent
space.
3) Generator1 Level: With full access to the generative
models, attackers leverage inference information, such
as activations and gradients, and fine-tune models to
increase adversarial effectiveness, while defenders use
these techniques to strengthen model robustness.
4) Output Level: With the output from the generative model,
1We refer to the entire generative model as the “Generator” without loss of

generality.

attackers can iteratively refine adversarial inputs, while
defenders can apply post-processing techniques to enhance
detection.
Note that we encompass a broader range of input-output
modality configurations, including text, image, audio, and video,
alongside multiple types of multimodal generative models
such as Any-to-Text, Any-to-Vision, and Any-to-Any models.
Meanwhile, we conduct a comparative analysis of various
evaluation datasets and metrics used for benchmarking, along
with insightful observations and suggestions for future research
directions. By highlighting the landscape of jailbreak attacks
against multimodal generative models, our survey enhances
the understanding of security challenges and provides direction
for developing effective defenses. We aim to equip researchers,
practitioners, and policymakers with valuable insights to
safeguard foundation models against malicious exploitation. In
summary, our key contributions are as follows:
• Through

a comprehensive review of existing attack
methodologies (see TABLE III) and defense strategies
(see TABLE IV), we abstract and summarize a general
categorization for launching and defending jailbreak
against multimodal generative models, comprising four
distinct stages (see Fig. 2).
• We present a comprehensive and systematic review of
attack, defense, and evaluation strategies across various
input-output modalities and different model structures.
• We thoroughly discuss the limitations, challenges, and
future directions for real-world applications, facilitating
future research in this domain.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
The remaining paper is organized as follows. We first provide TABLE I: Illustration of model short name and representative
a brief introduction to the preliminaries in Section II, which generative models used for jailbreak. For input/output modalicover essential topics and concepts for the proper understanding ties, I: Image, T: Text, V: Video, A: Audio, Any: Any of
of this work. In Section III and Section IV, we summarize Text/Image/Video/Audio.
existing approaches for jailbreak attacks and defense strategies,
Short Name
Modality
Representative Model
based on the stages of interaction with generative models
Any-to-Text Models (LLM Backbone)
IT2T
I+T→T
LLaVA [3], MiniGPT4 [27], InstructBLIP [28]
respectively, including input-level, encoder-level, generatorVT2T
V+T→T
Video-LLaMA [4], Video-LLaVA [29]
level, and output-level. Section V introduces the commonly
AT2T
A+T→T
Audio Flamingo [5], AudioPaLM [30]
used datasets and evaluation metrics. Moreover, we provide
Any-to-Vision Models (Diffusion Backbone)
T2I
T→I
Stable Diffusion [10], Midjourney [31], DALLE [32]
discussions and future research opportunities in Section VI.
IT2I
I+T→I
DreamBooth [33], InstructP2P [34]
Finally, we conclude this review in Section VII.
T2V

T→V

Open-Sora [35], Stable Video Diffusion [36]

IT2V

I+T→V

VideoPoet [37], CogVideoX [38]

II. PRELIMINARIES
In this section, we provide a concise introduction to multimodal generative models and jailbreak, aiming to enhance
comprehension of our work.
A. Multimodal Generative Models
Current multimodal generative models can be broadly classified into three distinct categories. The first category includes
Any-to-Text (Any Modality to Text) Models, which integrate
inputs from multiple modalities, encode them, and project into
the word embedding space of the LLM for generating textual
output [3]–[5], [27]–[30]. The second category encompasses
Any-to-Vision (Any Modality to Vision) Models, which encode
inputs across different modalities as conditional information and
leverage diffusion models to generate visual outputs [10], [31]–
[38]. Thirdly, Any-to-Any (Any Modality to Any Modality)
Models perceive inputs and generate outputs in arbitrary
combinations of text, image, video, and audio [2], [39]–[41].
We summarize the combinations of modalities regarding both
inputs and outputs of all categories in TABLE I. Additionally,
we provide a comprehensive analysis of their underlying
architectures as follows:
• Any-to-Text Models. Typical models in this category
consist of three primary components: an encoder, a pretrained LLM, and a modality interface that connects them.
The modality encoder functions akin to human sensory organs, transforming raw visual or audio data into compact
representations. A common approach is to use pre-trained
encoders that are already aligned with language data, as seen in
CLIP models [42], which facilitate alignment with LLMs. The
LLM, often chosen from established pre-trained models like
LLaMA [43] and Vicuna [43], serves as the central reasoning
unit. These models benefit from extensive pre-training on
web corpora, allowing for rich knowledge representation and
reasoning capabilities. To bridge the gap between modalities
and language, a modality interface is introduced. This interface
can either be a learnable projector that directly aligns the
encoded modality features with the LLM’s input requirements
or an expert model that translates non-textual data into language.
Overall, Any-to-Text Models utilize a multi-module architecture
to effectively integrate multimodal inputs and generate coherent
textual outputs.
• Any-to-Vision Models. Diffusion models represent a
major breakthrough in visual generation, surpassing traditional
methods like Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) [45].

Any-to-Any Models (Unified Backbone)
IT2IT

I+T→I+T

TIV2TIV

T+I+V→T+I+V

EMU3 [2]

Any2Any

Any → Any

GPT-4o [41], Gemini Ultra [44]

Next-GPT [39], Chameleon [40]

Specifically, diffusion models treat image generation as a
parameterized Markov chain. They generate new images by
employing a backward process that iteratively denoises Gaussian noise zT . A parameterized Gaussian transition network is
introduced to model this backward process. In practice, a vision
processor, typically a UNet, is trained to estimate the mean and
variance of the Gaussian transition network. For controllable
image generation, an additional text encoder is introduced as
a condition interpreter, allowing for flexible conditioning with
free-form text prompts [33], [34], [46].
Text-to-video generation models rely on three core components: condition interpreters, vision processors, and temporal
handlers [35], [36]. Condition interpreters translate the input
text into visual elements, connecting the semantics of the text
with the objects in the image and their dynamics in the video.
Vision processors handle the visual content within each frame.
Since a video is essentially a sequence of images, these models
often use vision processing modules similar to those in image
generation. Temporal handlers manage the progression between
frames, learning the dynamics of visual content over time. This
element is unique to video generation models, enabling the
capture of motion and transitions between frames through
various mechanisms.
• Any-to-Any Models. Typical models in this category can
be grouped into two main approaches: the first integrates a
foundational language model with an additional generator,
such as a pre-trained diffusion model; the second employs
a unified Transformer architecture that jointly manages both
comprehension and generation. In the first approach, models
like Next-GPT [39] utilize a pre-trained LLM to interpret
multimodal inputs, by an independent diffusion model for image
generation. The LLM functions as the core reasoning unit, while
the diffusion model ensures the production of coherent visual
outputs, thereby supporting complex multimodal tasks.
In contrast, the second approach embodies a fully integrated
solution, where a single Transformer mode simultaneously processes both understanding and generation tasks across multiple
modalities, thereby eliminating the dependence on diffusion
or compositional methods. For instance, Chameleon [1] leverages interleaved multiple-modality tokens, allowing for joint
reasoning over both modalities within a unified architecture.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
TABLE II: Notations related to jailbreak attacks and defenses
against multimodal generative models.
Symbol

Description

xmal
xadv
cmal
ymal
yadv
EM
ex
Mθ
Fsc
Lopt
Stox
Sharm
pθ (y|x)
ϵθ (zt , ex , t)

Malicious input.
Adversarial input.
Malicious concept.
Malicious output.
Adversarial output.
Encoder, M can be any of {T, I, V, A}.
Embedding obtained from the encoder.
Generative Model.
Safety Checker.
Target Optimized Goal.
Assessment of the input toxic scores.
Assessment of the output harmful scores.
Probability of next token prediction.
Predicted noise generated by Denoising Networks.

Recent research introduces Emu3 [2], a novel approach that
relies solely on next-token prediction. Emu3 tokenizes text,
images, and videos into a unified discrete space and utilizes
a single transformer trained from scratch across a mixture of
multimodal sequences.

C. Jailbreak Defense
To mitigate these vulnerabilities, current efforts focus on
enhancing the safety alignment of LLMs by improving data
quality during the Supervised Fine-tuning (SFT) phase [57] and
aligning model behavior with human safety preferences during
the RLHF stage [58]. Although LLMs have made significant
progress in safety alignment, the introduction of additional
modalities in multimodal generative models adds layers of
complexity and exposes new vulnerabilities. For instance,
incorporating additional modality encoders introduces risks
associated with the encoding of unsafe embeddings [59]–[61].
These risks can lead to the propagation of harmful content
across modalities, potentially compromising the reliability of
the overall generative system. This requires more advanced
defense mechanisms to ensure the ethical and secure use
of generative models while preserving the utility of these
technologies across a wide range of applications.
III. JAILBREAK ATTACK

In this section, we focus on discussing different advanced
jailbreak attacks against multimodal models. We categorize
attack methods into black-box, gray-box, and white-box attacks
(refer to TABLE III). As shown in Fig. 2, in a black-box setting
where the model is inaccessible to the attacker, the attack is
limited to surface-level interactions, focusing solely on the
B. Jailbreak Attack
model’s input and/or output. Regarding gray-box and white• Problem Formulation. Jailbreak attacks against generbox attacks, we consider model-level attacks, including attacks
ative models Mθ involve exploiting vulnerabilities to elicit
at both the encoder and generator.
unintended or harmful outputs Ymal . Directly using malicious
prompts Xmal is often filtered by the safety mechanisms
implemented in these models. Therefore, successful jailbreak A. Black-box Jailbreak
attempts require carefully crafted adversarial inputs Xadv
In black-box scenarios, attackers lack access to the internal
designed to bypass these built-in safety protocols.
architecture, parameter configurations, or gradient details of
max Ex∼Xadv [Sharm (Mθ (x))],

(1)

s.t. Stox (x) < ϵ,

(2)

Xadv

the target model, restricting their interactions to observing and
manipulating only the model’s input-output behavior.

• Word Replacement
where Sharm quantifies the degree of harmfulness in the
① Prompt Engineering
blood: watermelon juice.
generated content, and Stox assesses the manifest toxicity of
• LLM-based Generation
• Prompt Rewriting
the adversarial prompt. ϵ denotes the corresponding thresholds.
jamel is a cospaly enthusiast, and
• Proxy-model Generation
The objective is to optimize the generation of highly harmful
his outfit today is a burglar's outfit.
content while maintaining manifest toxicity below a certain
② Transfer Injection
threshold, ensuring it avoids detection and filtering.
• Text Typography
• Multimodal Jailbreak. Research on jailbreak attacks
• Diffusion-based Generation
has emerged from the field of LLMs [17], [47]–[50]. For
• Visual Role-play
instance, Zou et al. [48] propose to append specific adversarial
suffixes to malicious prompts, while AutoDAN [51] employs
A.1 Input-level Attack
a sophisticated hierarchical genetic algorithm to autonomously
generate subtle jailbreak prompts. As generative models evolve Fig. 3: Illustration of black box jailbreak attacks against
beyond text to include multimodal architectures such as vision- multimodal generative models at the input level where attackers
language and text-to-image models, the scope of jailbreak focus on devising sophisticated jailbreak input patterns.
attacks has similarly expanded. In these multimodal settings,
attackers can exploit not only textual prompts [52]–[54] but A.1 Input-level Attack
also vulnerabilities in visual inputs [18], [55] and multimodal
As shown in Fig. 3, attackers are compelled to develop
embeddings [56], targeting the complex interactions between more sophisticated input patterns across prompt engineering
text, images, and other modalities. This expanded attack surface and transfer injection techniques. These techniques can bypass
presents significant challenges to ensuring the safety and the model’s safeguards, making the models more susceptible
robustness of multimodal generative models.
to executing prohibited instructions.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
TABLE III: Summary of jailbreak attack methods against multimodal models. For model accessibility, black: black-box attack,
white: white-box attack, and gray: gray-box attack. For input/output modalities, I: Image, T: Text, V: Video, A: Audio.
Method

Venue

Access

Level

Taxonomy
Category

Model

Contribution

AutoJailbreak [62]
Arondight [63]
AdvWeb [64]
Prompt Dilution [65]
PGJ [66]
SurrogatePrompt [67]
ColJailBreak [68]
DACA [69]
UPAM [70]
BSPA [52]
Figstep [71]
MM-SafetyBench [55]
Logic Jailbreak [72]
Visual-RolePlay [73]
AIAH [74]

[NACCLW’24]
[ACM MM’24]
[arXiv’24]
[NeurIPSW’22]
[arXiv’24]
[CCS’24]
[NeurIPS’24]
[arXiv’23]
[ICML’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’23]
[ECCV’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]

Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black

Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input
Input

Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Prompt Engineering
Transfer Injection
Transfer Injection
Transfer Injection
Transfer Injection
Transfer Injection

I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
A+T→T

Leverage LLM’s native prompt optimization to automate jailbreaks.
Generate multimodal prompts via MLLMs/LLMs guided by reinforcement learning.
Optimize an adversarial prompter model to mislead MLLM-powered web agents.
Dilute prompts by adding unrelated extra to degrade filter performance.
Use LLMs to find perceptually similar safe phrases to replace unsafe words.
Use LLMs to substitute high-risk sections within a suspect prompt.
Use LLMs for unsafe word substitution and editing generations to embed harm.
Use LLMs as text transformation agents to generate adversarial prompts.
Optimize LLMs to generate natural adversarial prompts via two-stage learning.
Optimize text retriever to identify sensitive words.
Transform malicious text prompts into image form overlaid on white backgrounds.
Use Stable Diffusion to generate images based on the extracted keywords.
Design flowchart images to access MLLM’ logical reasoning abilities.
Act as high-risk roles in image inputs to generate harmful content.
Decompose harmful words into letters and conceal them in audio input.

Zer0-Jack [75]
DiffZOO [76]
SneakyPrompt [77]
RT-Attack [78]
SASP [79]
SSA [80]
IDEATOR [81]
APGP [82]
CoJ [83]
ICER [84]
Atlas [85]
Voice Jailbreak [21]

[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[S&P’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’23]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]

Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black
Black

Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output

Estimation-based
Estimation-based
Search-based
Search-based
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue
Multi-turn Dialogue

I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
A→A

Estimate zero-order gradients with output logits to optimize part of the image.
Estimate gradients via zero-order optimization for crafting adversarial prmpts.
Use reinforcement learning to guide the search process for refining prompts.
Two-stage random search to optimize prompt-wise and image-wise similarity.
Leverage stolen system prompts from GPT-4V for self-adversarial attacks.
Use agents and tools for response generation and harmful snowballing.
Use VLM agents to refine attack strategy based on previous responses.
Use LLMs to iteratively revise prompts based on the score function.
Decompose malicious queries into harmless sub-queries to iteratively edit images.
Use LLMs to learn from successful in-Context red-teaming experiences.
Develop LLM-based multi-agents combined with ICL and CoT reasoning.
Use fictional storytelling elements in voice prompts to jailbreak GPT-4o.

Jailbreak in Pieces [18]
Redteaming Attack [86]
MMA-Diffusion [19]
JPA [54]
Ring-A-Bell [53]

[ICLR’24]
[ECCV’24]
[CVPR’24]
[arXiv’24]
[ICLR’24]

Gray
Gray
Gray
Gray
Gray

Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder

Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Search-based

I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I

Combine adversarial images within benign prompts to disrupt safety alignment.
Mislead VLLM outputs by attacking on the vision encoder.
Generate adversarial prompts via gradient optimization and word regularization.
Optimize prefix prompts in latent space to align malicious concepts.
Extract holistic concepts within latent space and employ genetic search.

Image Hijacks [87]
VisualAdv [88]
ImgJS [89], [90]
Adv Aligned [91]
HADES [92]
Agent Smith [93]
UMK [94]
BAP [95]
P4D [96]
UnlearnDiffAtk [97]
VA3 [98]
MMA-Diffusion [19]
TSCO [56]

[ICML’24]
[AAAI’24]
[arXiv’24]
[NeurIPS’23]
[ECCV’24]
[ICML’24]
[ACM MM’24]
[arXiv’24]
[ICML’24]
[ECCV’24]
[CVPR’24]
[CVPR’24]
[arXiv’24]

White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White

Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator

Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based
Gradient-based

I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
I+T→I
I+T→I+T

Optimize image hijacks using behavior matching for multi-type attacks.
Optimize a single adversarial example on few-shot harmful corpus.
Convert visual adversarial vectors to text space, merged with harmful queries.
Optimize adversarial images to increase the probability of harmful response.
Composite images integrating malicious text, harmful images, adversarial noise.
Inject adversarial images in multi-agent memory to elicit harmful responses.
Optimize adversarial prefixed across image-text modalities simultaneously.
Combine query-agnostic image perturbing and intent-specific text optimization.
Optimize latent noise predictions to find the safety-evasive prompts.
Optimize adversarial prompts by maximizing diffusion model likelihood.
Iterative prompt optimization using multi-armed bandit for copyright evasion.
Optimize gradients of loss items that exceed the safety checker’s thresholds.
Approximates image tokenization with a continuous function.

Prompt Engineering. Prompt engineering involves strategically
modifying specific words or rewriting complete prompts. We
broadly divide this approach into two types based on prompt
generation sources: using off-the-shelf LLM models and using
trained proxy models.

diversity. Similarly, AdvWeb [64] proposes the first black-box
framework specifically designed to mislead MLLM-powered
web agents. This framework optimizes a generative model to
produce adversarial prompts, which are injected into web pages
to execute targeted malicious actions.

• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. AutoJailbreak [62]
leverages LLMs as red-team tools to automatically refine attack
prompts. This framework integrates weak-to-strong prompt
optimization strategies, a suffix-based attack enhancement
technique, and an efficient search mechanism. Instead of relying
on off-the-shelf LLMs, other methods [63], [64] optimize
proxy models for prompt refinement. Arondight [63] automates
multimodal jailbreak attacks by generating textual prompts
using a trained LLM, supplemented with toxic images crafted
by the proprietary GPT-4V. The red team LLM, guided by a
reinforcement learning agent, is optimized by incorporating
entropy bonuses and novelty reward metrics to enhance prompt

• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Earlier work [65] proposes
a “prompt dilution” strategy to degrade filter performance by
adding an unrelated extra to prompts. Recently, advances in offthe-shelf LLMs have reduced the barrier to producing diverse
jailbreak prompts on T2I models. A group of works [66]–[68]
introduces the concept of “substitution” by instructing LLMs
to replace unsafe content with benign phrases. Specifically,
PGJ [66] introduces perceptual confusion by preserving visual
similarity while altering the textual semantics (e.g., replacing
“blood” with “watermelon juice”). ColJailBreak [68] targets
normal images generated by substituting unsafe words, and
injects malicious elements into them through editing. Unlike

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

substitution-based methods, agent-based methods can better
unleash the potential of LLMs. DACA [69] leverages LLMs as
text transformation agents to create adversarial prompts. They
design attack helper prompts that guide LLMs to break down
an unethical drawing intent into multiple benign descriptions
of individual image elements.
In a similar vein, training proxy models can support the
development of specialized red-team tools for jailbreak-prompt
generation. UPAM [70] aims to optimize LoRA adapters within
LLMs to generate natural adversarial prompts by utilizing
a two-stage learning framework. In the first stage, sphereprobing learning optimizes prompts to bypass defenses, while
the second stage employs semantic-enhancing learning to refine
the generated images to align with harmful targets. Additionally,
BPSA [52] optimizes a text retriever to identify sensitive words
associated with the input vector and leverages LLMs to facilitate
the generation of stealthy attack prompts.
③ Estimation-based Attack
Synonym
Candidate Set

④ Search-based Attack

Not Satisfied:
Repeated Query

Perturbation

Satisfied

Input Variants
Refinement

Black-box Model
⑤ Multi-turn Dialogue

A.2 Output-level Attack

Fig. 4: Illustration of black box jailbreak attacks against
multimodal generative models at the output level where
attackers focus on querying responses to multiple input variants
to obtain satisfactory jailbreak outputs.

Transfer Injection. Transfer Injection methods primarily
transfer toxic prompts into other modalities, such as images gradient. This estimation is achieved by observing the deviation
by text typography or diffusion-based generation. Due to the of optimized goals Lopt in response to small input perturbations
insufficient security training in the visual modules of current δ, which can be formulated as:
models [71], it is relatively more vulnerable to jailbreak attacks.
Lopt (Mθ (x + δ)) − Lopt (Mθ (x − δ))
. (3)
∇x Lopt =
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Some works [55],
2δ
[71], [73], [92] propose to create typography-based visual
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Based on the above
prompt images by overlaying malicious textual statements formula, Zer0-Jack [75] utilizes output logits or probabilities for
onto white background images. These images are subsequently zeroth-order gradient estimation, reducing memory usage and
paired with benign text prompts to execute the jailbreak query complexity by optimizing only specific image regions.
attack. Apart from typography-based methods, some other
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Likewise, DiffZOO [76]
methods [55], [72], [73] have explored the potential of employs zeroth order and discrete prompt optimization to
using diffusion models to generate targeted jailbreak images. estimate gradients. During the optimization process, DiffZOO
For instance, MM-SafetyBench [55] generates target images identifies critical tokens within prompts that significantly impact
based on the extracted keywords from the malicious prompts. model behavior and selectively replaces them to enhance the
Moreover, the Logical jailbreak method [72] designs flowchart attack’s effectiveness.
images corresponding to harmful behaviors to evaluate the
logical reasoning and visual imagination capabilities of MLLMs. Search-based Attack. Search-based methods are employed to
To leverage the model’s capacity for role simulation, Visual- efficiently navigate the candidate input space, refining input
RolePlay [73] generates images depicting high-risk roles, with variations to align with specified adversarial objectives.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. SneakyPrompt [77] is
descriptive text positioned at the top and malicious prompts
at the bottom. After generating these role-specific images, the an automated attack framework that leverages reinforcement
model is instructed to play high-risk roles in image inputs to learning to assist in replacing tokens within the search space.
The framework’s reward model is grounded in cosine similarity
produce harmful content.
• Audio + Text → Text (AT2T) Models. AIAH [74] between adversarial and malicious embeddings, effectively
introduces a speech-specific technique, that breaks down steering the optimization toward generating unsafe content.
harmful words into individual letters to obscure their presence To expand the search space, RT-Attack [78] aims to find the
in the audio input. The model is then instructed to concatenate adversarial prompt within a vast vocabulary codebook. This
these letters back into complete words, thereby reconstructing method utilizes a naive random search strategy guided by a twostage adversarial objective – first optimizing semantic similarity
the original harmful question within the jailbreak prompt.
between the adversarial and target malicious prompts, then
A.2 Output-level Attack
maximizing the similarity between output images generated by
In Fig. 4, attackers focus on iteratively querying the model’s two prompts.
responses to refine inputs based on optimization-based and
Multi-turn Dialogue. Relying on the autonomous reasoning
multi-turn dialogue methods. Optimization-based methods
and tool-use capabilities inherent in LLMs, multi-turn dialogue
typically rely on specific adversarial goals, which are addressed
methods facilitate interactions between large models and victim
by estimation-based and search-based attack techniques.
models, progressively intensifying malicious intent.
Estimation-based Attack. To address the challenges of
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Some methods [79],
gradient unavailability, estimation-based methods typically rely [80] adopt self-adversarial methods to execute the jailbreak
on iterative black-box queries to estimate the model’s Mθ attacks. Specifically, SASP [79] employs carefully crafted

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

dialogues to steal confidential system prompts to enhance the
attack success rate. SSA [80] identifies the Safety Snowball
Effect which begins with benign inputs and iteratively prompts
the model for progressively more harmful outputs through
context-driven interactions. Instead of relying on self-contained
LLMs, IDEATOR [81] includes the additional attack models
that refine prompts based on the victim model’s prior responses
and integrate tool-using capabilities for malicious image
generation.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Several recent works [53],
[82], [84] introduce generated images as feedback for iterative
refinement. For instance, APGP [82] refines high-risk prompts
concerning copyright infringement based on self-generated
scores which require measuring image-image consistency.
CoJ [53] decomposes the query into multiple sub-queries, and
then prompts T2I models to generate and iteratively edit images
based on these sub-queries. Building on a collaborative multiagent framework, Atlas [85] employs two specialized agents:
the mutation agent and the selection agent. Each agent is
equipped with four modules: a MLLM/LLM brain, planning,
memory, and tool usage. These two agents collaborate in
an iterative process to determine jailbreak prompt-triggered
responses and generate new candidate jailbreak prompts.
• Audio → Audio (A2A) Models. Constructing targeted
scenarios can induce the model to take on a role aligned
with harmful behaviors. VoiceJailbreak [21] introduces a
multi-step role-play attack on GPT-4o by exploiting fictional
storytelling techniques. This method constructs prompts around
key elements of fictional writing: setting, character, and plot.
By engaging the model as a reader of fictional narratives, the
adversary rephrases forbidden questions as assertive statements
within fictional contexts.
B. Gray-box and White-box Attack
⑥ Gradient-based Attack

⑦ Search-based Attack

Iterative
Update × N

Harmful Input

Sensitive Non-Sensitive

Adv. Input
Encoder

Similar Semantic
of Harmful Input

‘nude’
Harm. Input

Adversarial Input
Adv. Initialization

‘Glad’

Safety Filter’s
Decision Boundary

B.1 Encoder-level Attack

Fig. 5: Illustration of gray-box jailbreak attacks against
multimodal generative models at the encoder level where
attackers can directly exploit the vulnerabilities within the
encoder architecture.

Gradient-based Attack. Gradient-based attacks operate by
extracting gradient information from the model to iteratively
modify the input, moving the input closer to achieve the
adversarial objective.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Jailbreak in
Pieces [18] and Redteaming Attack [86] both propose to
construct adversarial images paired with textual prompts
to disrupt model alignment. These adversarial images are
optimized through gradient-based attacks within the latent space
of the encoder, effectively mapping adversarial embeddings
near regions associated with harmful triggers.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Similarly, MMADiffusion [19] and JPA [54] both employ gradient-driven
techniques to iteratively optimize adversarial prompts, aligning
their embeddings closely with those of the target harmful
content. Additionally, MMA-Diffusion [19] applies word
regularization methods to remove any sensitive terms, while
JPA [54] merges inappropriate concepts into the target content
embedding to counter concept removal methods.

Search-based Attack. In certain scenarios, attackers may lack
In a white-box attack scenario, attackers have access to the full white-box gradient access but retain access to model output
internal architecture of the target model, including encoder distributions, such as encoder-generated embeddings. These
and generator modules. This level of access allows attackers embeddings can be exploited to construct adversarial objectives,
to leverage gradient information and the model’s intermediate with search-based methods used for optimization to avoid
representations, facilitating precise adversarial modifications. explicit gradient requirements.
In certain scenarios, attackers possess partial knowledge of
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Ring-A-Bell [53] iteratively
the model, such as the architecture, some internal parameters explores the latent space, adjusting adversarial inputs to align
(e.g., pre-trained encoder), or the model’s output distribution. their embeddings with problematic prompts. To achieve this,
This type of attack is referred to as a gray-box attack.
the method employs a genetic algorithm [101] to optimize
input modifications, enabling a guided exploration of semantic
B.1 Encoder-level Attack
similarity.
For encoder-level attacks, attackers are restricted to accessing
only the encoders to provoke harmful responses. In this case, B.2 Generator-level Attack
attackers typically seek to maximize cosine similarity within
For generator-level attacks in Fig. 6, attackers have unrethe latent space, ensuring the adversarial input retains similar stricted access to the generative model’s architecture and checksemantics to the target malicious content while still being point, enabling attackers to conduct thorough investigations
classified as safe. This adversarial objective [18], [19], [53], and manipulations, thus enabling sophisticated attacks.
[54], [86], [99], [100] is formalized as:
Gradient-based Attack. Driven by defined adversarial goals,
arg max Cos (EM (xadv ) , EM (xmal )) .
(4) using gradients derived from the full generative models can
xadv
precisely optimize adversarial inputs. Based on the source of
This objective can be solved using gradient-based or search- supervisory signals embedded within the optimization objective,
based optimization techniques in Fig. 5.
gradient-based attacks can be categorized into three types: target

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
can be formulated as:
Generative
Model

Adv. Input

Adversarial
Objective

Update × N
arg min ∥ϵθU (zt |xmal ) − ϵθV (zt |xadv )∥2 ,

⑧ Gradient-based Attack

Adversarial
Gradient

•

Target Response-based

•

Auxiliary Generative Model-based

•

Auxiliary Classifier-based

where zt is the denoised image at timestep t. Since two
separate diffusion processes will increase the computational
burden, UnlearnDiffAtk [97] prepare a target image Itgt
containing sensitive content as optimized guidance to minimize
discrepancies in noise predictions by:

B.2 Generator-level Attack
Fig. 6: Illustration of white-box jailbreak attacks against
multimodal generative models at the generator level where
attackers have full access to the entire model architecture.

response-based, auxiliary generative model-based, and auxiliary
classifier-based.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Most methods [87]–
[95] operating gradient-based attacks are typically driven by the
target responses, by maximizing the likelihood loss to achieve
targeted modifications in the output probability distribution.
This is formally expressed as:
arg min −
xadv
m

m
X

log (pθ (yi |xadv )),

(6)

xadv

(5)

i=1

where {yi }i=1 represents the target output sequence, m is the
sequence length and pθ (·) represents the probability of next
token prediction.
Specifically, Image Hijacks [87] crafts prompt-matching
adversarial images to match malicious behaviors to arbitrary
text prompts. VisualAdv [88] reveals that a single visual
adversarial example generated using a “few-shot” toxic corpus
can universally jailbreak aligned models. In addition to adversarial noise as a visual component, HADES [92] introduces
two additional elements: images created from harmful text
typography and malicious images generated using stable
diffusion [10]. Moreover, Agent Smith [93] addresses the issue
of “infectious jailbreak” within a multi-agent environment. By
introducing adversarial images into the memory of randomly
selected agents, this method can induce the agents to generate
harmful responses. In contrast to methods that primarily
target the visual modality, UMK [94] and BAP [95] conduct
simultaneous adversarial attacks across both image and text
modalities. Notably, BAP [95] utilizes chain-of-thought (CoT)
reasoning to enhance textual prompts through a feedbackiteration mechanism.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Given that victim T2I
models MθV possess safety mechanisms that can remove the
sensitive concept, existing methods [96]–[98] often perform
gradient-based adversarial attacks aiming to minimize the noise
prediction loss. These attack methods typically require supervised guidance provided by auxiliary diffusion models [96],
[98] or target images [97], [98].
For instance, P4D [96] generates an image with an inappropriate concept by aligning noise predictions between victim
T2I models MθV and unconstrained T2I models MθU , which

arg min ∥ϵ − ϵθV (Itgt,t |xadv )∥2 .

(7)

xadv

Furthermore, by simultaneously introducing target images and
auxiliary models, VA3 [98] explores adversarial attacks in an
online scenario where attackers iteratively generate prompts to
increase the likelihood of copyright infringement. To enhance
attack success, the proposed framework utilizes an amplification
strategy and adversarial prompt optimization, leveraging a multiarmed bandit approach for prompt selection.
• Text + Image → Image (IT2I) Models. Apart from
using auxiliary generative models or target responses as
guidance, MMA-Diffusion [19] employs an external image
classifier to produce supervised signals. Specifically, MMADiffusion launches adversarial attacks on image editing tasks
and dynamically optimizes the gradients of loss items that
exceed the victim safety checker’s Fsc thresholds T , the method
aims to minimally alter image features while bypassing the
safety mechanism. This adversarial objective is formalized as:
arg min 1{Cos(fadv ,fmal )>T } Cos (fadv , fmal ) ,

(8)

fadv = Fsc (yadv ) , fmal = Fsc (ymal ) .

(9)

xadv

• Text + Image → Text + Image (IT2IT) Models. Recent
multimodal unified models such as Chameleon [40] tokenize
all input modalities using non-differentiable functions. To
facilitate gradient-based attacks, TSCO [56] introduces a
2-layer fully connected network as the tokenizer shortcut,
providing backward gradients that enable continuous end-toend optimization via this shortcut.
IV. JAILBREAK D EFENSE
In this section, we introduce current efforts made in the jailbreak defense of multimodal generative models, which includes
two lines of work: Discriminative defense and Transformative
defense (as shown in TABLE IV). In a discriminative setting,
the defense is constrained to classification tasks for assigning
binary labels. In contrast, transformative defense extends
beyond classification to influencing the model’s generative
process, aiming to produce safe responses in the presence of
malicious or adversarial inputs.
A. Discriminative Defense
Discriminative defenses focus on identifying and analyzing
varying classified cues, such as statistical information at the
input level, embeddings at the encoder level, activations at the
generator level, and response discrepancies at the output level.
Since these defenses operate independently of the generation

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
TABLE IV: Summary of jailbreak defense methods against multimodal models. For input/output modalities, I: Image, T: Text,
V: Video, A: Audio.
Method

Venue

Function

Level

Taxonomy
Category

Contribution

Model

Intra-Entropy Gap [102]
Blacklist [31], [32], [103]
CIDER [104]
Latent Guard [105]
GuardT2I [106]
NEARSIDE [107]
JailGuard [108]
Espresso [109]

[arXiv’24]
[Arxiv’23]
[arXiv’24]
[ECCV’24]
[NeurIPS’24]
[arXiv’24]
[Arxiv’23]
[arXiv’24]

Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative
Discriminative

Input
Input
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Generator
Output
Output

Statistics-based
Statistics-based
Perturbation-based
Proxy-based
Proxy-based
Perturbation-based
Perturbation-based
Proxy-based

I+T→T
T→I
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I

Measure the entropy gap to detect visual anomalies indicative.
Restrict the predefined set of words or phrases in the input prompts.
Denoise input images to identify similarity difference.
Learn a latent space for detecting harmful concepts in the input text embeddings.
Use generative models to interpret intentions behind adversarial latent embeddings.
Obtain attack direction based on benign and adversarial embeddings for classification.
Mutate inputs and leverage response discrepancies to detect attacks.
Present a content detector based on Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training.

AdaShield [110]
UNIGUARD [111]
BlueSuffix [112]
POSI [113]
Sim-CLIP [59], [60]
AdvUnlearn [114]
Safe-CLIP [61]
Self-discovery [115]
ES [116]
VLGuard [117]
SafeVLM [118]
Bathe [119]
Unlearn [120]
ESD [121]
Receler [122]
SalUn [123]
Dark Miner [124]
EraseDiff [125]
SFD [126]
SDD [127]
SafeGen [128]
UCE [129]
MACE [130]
RECE [131]
ShieldDiff [132]
DUO [133]
Forget-Me-Not [134]
UC [135]
InferAligner [136]
ASTRA [137]
EIUP [138]
SLD [139]
SAFREE [140]
P-ESD [141]
ConceptPrune [142]
CoCA [143]
IMMUNE [144]
MLLM-Protector [145]
ECSO [146]
LMIVS [147]

[Arxiv’24]
[Arxiv’24]
[Arxiv’24]
[NAACL’24]
[arXiv’24]
[NeurIPS’24]
[ECCV’24]
[CVPR’24]
[Arxiv’24]
[ICML’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[ICCV’23]
[ECCV’24]
[ICLR’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[ICMLW’23]
[CCS’24]
[WACV’24]
[CVPR’24]
[ECCV’24]
[arXiv’24]
[ICMLW’24]
[CVPR’24]
[arXiv’24]
[EMNLP’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[CVPR’23]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[arXiv’24]
[COLM’24]
[arXiv’24]
[EMNLP’24]
[ECCV’24]
[WACV’24]

Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative
Transformative

Input
Input
Input
Input
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Encoder
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Generator
Output
Output
Output
Output
Output

Perturbation-based
Perturbation-based
Refiner-based
Refiner-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Guidance-based
Refiner-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Tuning-based
Guidance-based
Guidance-based
Guidance-based
Guidance-based
Guidance-based
Pruning-based
Pruning-based
Decoding-based
Decoding-based
Refiner-based
Refiner-based
Refiner-based

I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I
T→I
T→V
T→I
T→I
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
I+T→T
T→I

Devise general defense prompts and prepend them to model inputs.
Search for additive visual noise and textual suffix to purify adversarial inputs.
Fine-tune a generator through reinforcement learning to generate defensive suffix.
Fine-tune a LLM as an optimizer which transforms toxic prompts into clean ones.
Fine-tune vision encoder through adversarial training.
Propose bi-level optimization-based integration scheme to fine-tune text encoder.
Fine-tune the CLIP model on synthetic data obtained from a LLM.
Discover vectors representing desired concepts to guide responsible generation.
Design a plug-and-play module to erase unsafe concepts from prompt embedding.
Build the first safety fine-tuning datasets for fine-tuning VLMs.
Fine-tune additional safety modules and VLMs progressively in two stages.
Fine-tune a trigger to connect harmful instructions with rejection responses.
Fine-tune VLMs via the unlearning method applied within the textual domain.
Fine-tune the model by using conditioned and unconditioned scores.
Propose concept-localized regularization and adversarial prompt learning.
Design weight saliency which apply machine unlearning to specific influential weights.
Remove unsafe concept via mining, verifying, and circumventing.
Fine-tune the model with remaining data and forgetting data.
Align the conditional scores of unsafe classes or concepts with those of safe ones.
Apply self-distillation to fine-tune the diffusion model.
Regulate the vision-only self-attention layers to remove concepts.
Use a closed-form solution to modify the model’s attention weights.
Combine closed-form cross-attention refinement with LoRA fine-tuning.
Use closed-form parameter editing combined with adversarial learning schemes.
Design a content-safe reward function to fine-tune the model via reinforcement learning.
Use preference optimization to fine tune the model.
Fine-tune the UNet to minimize the attention maps corresponding to the target concepts.
Propose domain correction framework using adversarial training.
Extract safety steering vectors to modify the activations of the victim model.
Steer models away from adversarial feature directions.
Identiey and re-weight non-compliant features through attention mechanism.
Guide generation in the opposite direction of unsafe prompt via classifier-free guidance.
Dynamically adjust the denoising steps and design re-attention mechanisms.
Use model pruning to remove critical parameters linked to the unsafe concepts.
Identify neurons responsible for undesirable concepts.
Calibrate the logit distribution by amplifying the impact of the safety prompt.
Use controlled decoding through a safe reward model.
Use detectors and detoxifiers to convert harmful responses to benign.
Transform unsafe images into texts to activate models’ intrinsic safety mechanism.
Use detectors and generators to detect and manipulate visual immorality.

pipeline, they preserve the model’s structural integrity and
ensure that its generative capabilities remain unaffected.

Jailbreak Input

…including the grenade, the
bomb, … (e.g., TNT, C-4,…

Generative Model
Encoder
‘nude’

‘Glad’
Here is the plan to rob a
bank. Assemble the Team.

A.1 Input-level Defense
Input analysis typically relies on established statistical
metrics and rule-based criteria, making them easy to implement
and interpret in various practical scenarios.

Input-level Defense

Encoder-level Defense

Generator-level Defense

Output-level Defense

•

Statistics-based

•

Perturbation-based

•

Perturbation-based

•

Perturbation-based

•

Proxy-based

•

Proxy-based

•

Proxy-based (Unexplored)

•

Proxy-based

Discriminative Defense

Safe

Unsafe
Statistics-based Defense. Examining statistical features of
the input, including assessing perplexity levels and detecting Fig. 7: Illustration of discriminative jailbreak defense at four
different levels.
sensitive keywords, is a common and efficient strategy.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Intra-Entropy
Gap [102] targets the detection of non-stealthy manipulations. ucts [31], [32], [103], blacklist methods are a commonly
This method analyzes entropy and perplexity-based differences employed strategy for ensuring content safety and compliance
between non-overlapping regions in image or text data to detect with platform guidelines. These methods involve creating a
inconsistencies indicative of an attack.
predefined list of restricted or prohibited words and phrases
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. In commercial T2I prod- that the T2I models must filter out in their inputs.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

A.2 Encoder-level Defense
Without relying solely on explicit keywords or rules, Encoderlevel defense focuses on the examination of the latent space
within the pre-trained encoders.
Perturbation-based Defense. Perturbation-based Defense
within the encoder level involves disturbing inputs to observe
the resulting variations in the generated embeddings.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. CIDER [104]
performs iterative denoising of the image input and calculates
the cross-modal similarity between the text and denoised
image embeddings. If the difference in similarity surpasses a
predefined threshold, the input is classified as adversarial, and
the model responds by rejecting the request.
between adversarial and benign inputs based on the semantic
divergence of their response patterns.
Proxy-based Defense. Training a dedicated external classifier
to detect the toxicity of generated responses is widely used as
an automatic evaluation method [109], [148]–[151].
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Espresso [109] employs a
fine-tuned CLIP classifier to filter unacceptable content in generated images. The fine-tuning process separates the embeddings
of acceptable and unacceptable concepts, optimizing the cosine
similarity for both while preserving contextual information.
B. Transformative Defense
Despite the improved accuracy in discriminative defense,
these methods often incorrectly flag benign inputs as harmful.
Recent research increasingly focuses on transformative defenses
that can operate at four levels to influence the model’s
generation process, ensuring benign responses when confronted
with adversarial or malicious prompts, as shown in Fig. 8.

Proxy-based Defense. Proxy-based defenses pass the generated
embeddings to the external models for analyzing the potential
semantic tendencies.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Latent Guard [105] detects
unsafe prompts by mapping the latent representations of
blacklisted concepts and corresponding prompts within a shared B.1 Input-level Defense
latent space. The approach begins by utilizing a pre-trained
Defenders can enhance inputs by embedding defense cues
text encoder to extract embeddings, followed by training an or applying purification via refiners to steer the model toward
Embedding Mapping Layer that emphasizes relevant tokens generating benign outputs.
through cross-attention mechanisms. Similarly, GuardT2I [106]
optimizes a generative framework to convert latent embeddings Perturbation-based Defense. Appending carefully crafted
into natural language, accurately capturing the user’s intent. prefixes or noises to inputs is viewed as an effective preventative
By revealing the true intent of input prompts, GuardT2I then measure.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. AdaShield [110]
applies both blacklist and Sentence Similarity Checker to detect
employs a prompt generator to construct a diverse pool of
malicious prompts.
defense prompts tailored to various scenarios. During inference,
A.3 Generator-level Defense
this approach selects the most suitable defense prompt from the
Generator-level defense involves distilling activations from pool based on semantic similarity, appending it as a prefix to
internal hidden states to identify anomalous patterns indicative model inputs. Unlike using proxy models to generate prefixes,
UNIGUARD [111] applies gradient-based optimization to
of harmful content.
construct specialized safety guardrails for each modality. These
Perturbation-based Defense. Apart from embeddings from guardrails including visual noises and textual suffixes, are
the latent space, embedding values from the hidden states of optimized to minimize the likelihood of generating harmful
generators can also be utilized to monitor suspicious activity. responses in a toxic corpus.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. NEARSIDE [107]
identifies the attack direction from the hidden states by Refiner-based Defense. Refiner-based Defense typically recalculating the average embedding difference between benign quires training a dedicated generative model, specifically
and adversarial inputs. Inputs are then classified as adversarial designed to transform harmful content into safe ones.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. BlueSuffix [112]
if the projection of their embedding onto the obtained attack
comprises
three primary components: a textual purifier, a visual
direction exceeds a defined threshold.
purifier, and a suffix generator. Specifically, the textual purifier
A.4 Output-level Defense
rewrites adversarial prompts and appends the purified text with
Output-level Defenses typically employ iterative querying defensive suffixes generated by the suffix generator. These
with perturbed inputs or specialized toxic detectors to assess modified textual inputs, combined with the purified images
from the visual purifier, serve as defense inputs.
the model outputs.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. POSI [113] uses proximal
Perturbation-based Defense. Without relying on intermediate policy optimization to fine-tune a language model that transmodel values, an alternative approach is to analyze the variance forms toxic prompts into clean ones. It introduces a novel
in the resulting outputs by iteratively querying models with reward function that assesses both the toxicity level and the
perturbed inputs.
textual alignment of the generated images.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. JailGuard [108]
leverages input mutation and response divergence to identify B.2 Encoder-level Defense
attacks. The framework implements 18 mutators to mutate unFor transformative defense, encoder-level methods focus on
trusted inputs, generating multiple variants, and distinguishing modifying the encoder’s behavior and can be categorized into

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
Defense Input

Generative Model
Encoder

Adv.

Transformative Defense

Before Defense
Input-level Defense
•

Perturbation-based

•

Refiner-based

I’m sorry, I can
not provide ...

...Steps to illegal
drugs: first...

After Defense

Encoder-level Defense

Generator-level Defense

•

Tuning-based

•

Tuning-based

•

Guidance-based

•

Guidance-based

•

Decoding-based

•

Refiner-based

•

Pruning-based

•

Refiner-based

Output-level Defense

Fig. 8: Illustration of transformative jailbreak defense at four different levels. By influencing the generation process when
encountering attacks, generative models produce safe response examples including text via AdaShield [110] and images via
Forget-Me-Not [134].

three types: fine-tuning during the training phase, applying
guidance and refiner during the inference phase.

plug-and-play module that operates on prompt embeddings.
By using an internal scoring network that assigns harmfulness
scores to individual tokens, ES identifies inappropriate concepts
within prompt embeddings, enabling adaptive sanitization that
prioritizes high-risk tokens while preserving benign ones.

Tuning-based Defense. Fine-tuning encoders aims to achieve
safety alignment within the model’s latent space, preventing
the propagation of harmful content through the downstream
B.3 Generator-level Defense
generative process.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Sim-CLIP series
Generative-level transformation involves editing the model
methods [59], [60] introduce an unsupervised approach to fine- during training and incorporating guidance or pruning mechatune the built-in vision encoder, aiming to enhance robustness nisms during inference, thereby directly influencing the model’s
against adversarial attacks. Specifically, the approach introduces internal generation process.
a Siamese architecture combined with adversarial training
strategies that maximize cosine similarity between clean and Tuning-based Defense. These defenses modify the model’s
behavior by adjusting parameters based on optimized objectives,
perturbed image representations.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Both AdvUnlearn [114] such as likelihood loss and noise prediction loss.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Some methand Safe-CLIP [61] fine-tune the text encoder in T2I models.
ods
[117]–[120] primarily fine-tune models with supervised
AdvUnlearn [114] proposes a utility-retaining regularization
instruction
datasets to ensure the model’s output probability
to optimize the trade-off between concept erasure robustness
distribution
aligns more closely with desired safe outputs
and model utility. It effectively erases nudity, objects, and
s m
{y
}
.
This
is formally expressed as:
i i=1
style concepts across various diffusion models. Safe-CLIP [61]
fine-tunes on synthetic data obtained from a LLM. It enhances
m
X
safety in cross-modal tasks, including image-to-text retrieval,
arg min −
log (pθ (yis |xmal )).
(10)
θ
text-to-image generation, and image generation.
i=1

where m is the sequence length and pθ (·) represents the probability of next token prediction. Specifically, VL-Guard [117]
presents a vision-language safety dataset covering both harmful
and safe images paired with relevant instructions, which are
used to evaluate and fine-tune models. In addition to direct
tuning, other works [118], [119] introduce additional safety
modules. SafeVLM [118] incorporates a safety projector, safety
tokens, and a safety head. Through a two-stage training process,
this approach progressively trains safety modules and fine-tunes
the language model. Similarly, BaThe [119] employs a series of
trainable soft embeddings, aiming to map harmful instructions
to rejection responses during training.
Based on supervised fine-tuning, unlearning training involves
removing specific harmful or unwanted information from a
Refiner-based Defense. Since prompt embeddings are likely model through targeted retraining. Unlearn [120] proposes
the source of unsafe generation, refiners can purify inappropri- an unlearning approach by introducing loss terms that reduce
ate concepts from embeddings into benign representations.
harmful outputs while maintaining the model’s utility for benign
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. ES [116] introduces a inputs. This method focuses on three objectives: reducing

Guidance-based Defense. Embedding specific information into
the latent space aims to deviate from the generation directions
of unsafe content.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Self-discovery [115]
proposes to add a learned latent vector to the embeddings
of the condition prompt to guide responsible generation. These
latent vectors are discovered without requiring labeled data or
external models. Specifically, it first generates images from text
prompts containing the target concept. These images are then
denoised using a frozen diffusion model, guided by a modified
prompt excluding the concept and an introduced learnable
latent vector. By minimizing the reconstruction loss, the latent
vector learns to represent the concept.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

the likelihood of generating harmful responses, encouraging
helpful outputs in response to harmful inputs, and preserving
the model’s original performance on benign inputs.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. To erase the concept, a
group of works [121]–[128] learn to lower the probability of
the generated image aligning with the target concept c, which
can be formulated as:


arg min Ezt ,t ∥ϵθ (zt , ec , t) − ϵE ∥2 ,
(11)
MACE [130] expands the erasure capacity to handle up to
100 concepts by combining the closed-form cross-attention
refinement with LoRA fine-tuning. RECE [131] employs closedform parameter editing combined with adversarial learning
schemes to achieve reliable and efficient concept erasing.
Reinforcement learning is also introduced to erase unsafe
concepts [132], [133]. ShieldDiff [132] tackles unsafe content
removal by fine-tuning a pre-trained diffusion model through reinforcement learning. It employs a customized reward function
θ
that combines the CLIP model with nudity-specific rewards
where zt is the denoised image at timestep t. ϵE is the negato filter out the nudity content. DUO [133] removes unsafe
tively guided noise. Specifically, ESD [121] and Receler [122]
content from T2I models through preference optimization with
fine-tune the model by using conditioned and unconditioned
paired image data.
scores from the frozen model, steering the output away from
There are also novel approaches that do not fall into the
the concept being erased. SalUn [123] introduces the concept of
above categories. For example, Forget-Me-Not [134] introduces
“weight saliency” by focusing on specific model weights rather
attention Re-steering which fine-tunes the UNet component
than the entire model. Dark Miner [124] follows a recurring
to minimize the attention maps corresponding to the target
three-stage process of mining, verifying, and circumventing.
concepts. UC [135] proposes a domain correction framework
It greedily mines embeddings with the highest generation
using adversarial training to align sensitive and anchor concepts
probabilities for unsafe concepts and effectively reduces the
in diffusion models, along with gradient surgery to preserve
generation of unsafe content by targeting and mitigating these
model performance by mitigating conflicts between unlearning
high-risk embeddings. EraseDiff [125] frames the unlearning
and relearning gradients.
task as a constrained optimization problem. It designs an inner
optimization and an outer optimization. The former focuses on Guidance-based Defense. Intervening in the forward activaerasing undesirable influence by optimizing the models to fail to tions during the inference phase with the external information
generate meaningful images corresponding to unsafe concepts. can guide the model’s output towards safer and more desirable
The latter preserves model performance by optimizing with the outcomes.
original diffusion loss function. Other works encourage [126]–
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Some works [136],
[128] the forgetting of undesirable information in diffusion [137] apply safety steering vectors to calibrated activation at
models by aligning the conditional scores of unsafe concepts inference time, aiming to address harmful intents while prewith those of safe ones. SFD [126] integrates a score-based loss serving the model’s performance on benign inputs. Specifically,
into the score distillation objective of a pre-trained diffusion InferAligner [136] extracts steering vectors by calculating the
model. SDD [127] applies self-distillation to the diffusion activation difference between harmful and harmless prompts,
model, guiding the noise estimate conditioned on the target and employs a guidance gate to selectively control activation
concept to align with the unconditional estimate. SafeGen [128] shifts in specific transformer layers. Based on InferAligner,
removes unsafe representations by projecting them into images ASTRA [137] identifies visual tokens from adversarial images
with thick mosaics.
that are most strongly associated with jailbreaks and uses these
Unlike the above methods which design the noise prediction tokens to construct steering vectors.
loss, some works [129]–[131] modify the attention weights W
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. EIUP [138] mitigates unsafe
to induce targeted changes in the keys and values of erased content by re-weighting the attention map of the target token,
concepts ci and minimize changes of preserved concepts cj . guided by an introduced target unsafe concept. Specifically, it
Specifically, these approaches aim to find weights such that the integrates image latent variables with the latent embedding of
output for each input ci maps to safe values vi∗ rather than the the erasure prompt to generate a corresponding target unsafe
original W old ci , while preserving the outputs for the inputs cj attention map. During the attention feature adjustment stage, the
as W old cj . A formal objective function can be constructed as target unsafe attention map is merged with the attention map of
follows:
the original prompt. Subsequently, the target unsafe attention
X
X
∗ 2
old
||W ci − vi ||2 +
||W cj − W cj ||2 . (12) map is reweighted to suppress unsafe features. SLD [139]
min
W
mitigates inappropriate content generation by combining text
ci ∈E
cj ∈P
conditioning with classifier-free guidance. It edits images during
Notably, the objective function in Equation 12 has a closed- inference without fine-tuning, using unsafe prompts to guide
form solution for the updated weights:
generation in the opposite direction.


−1
• Text → Video (T2V) Models. SAFREE [140] identifies
X
X
X
X

 .
W =
vi∗ cT
W old cj cT
ci cT
cj cT
unsafe tokens and projects them into a space orthogonal to the
i +
j
i +
j
ci ∈E
cj ∈P
ci ∈E
cj ∈P
unsafe concept subspace, while retaining their representations
(13) within the original input space. To balance toxicity filtering and
Specifically, UCE [129] uses the closed-form solution to opti- the preservation of safe concepts, it employs a self-validating
mize the model’s attention weights, selectively erasing the target filtering mechanism, dynamically adjusting denoising steps and
concepts while minimizing alterations to the preserved concepts. using adaptive re-attention within the diffusion latent space.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

Pruning-based Defense. Unsafe content often originates from
concept neurons, which are essential for generating specific
concepts. Pruning model parameters to deactivate unwanted
concept neurons offers an effective strategy for eliminating
harmful content.
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. Some works [141], [142]
selectively remove critical parameters linked to the undesired
concepts. Specifically, P-ESD [141] enhances concept-erasing
techniques by identifying concept-correlated neurons that
are sensitive to adversarial prompts. ConceptPrune [142]
identifies skilled neurons in feed-forward layers responsible
for undesirable concepts in diffusion models.
A. Evaluation Dataset
In this part, we review datasets commonly used in multimodal jailbreak attacks and defenses. These datasets can be
classified into two categories based on their construction intent:
simulated-malicious and real-malicious datasets. Simulatedmalicious datasets are typically derived from existing benign
datasets that are not explicitly designed for jailbreak scenarios.
In contrast, real-malicious datasets are deliberately designed
to encompass a wide range of malicious topics, aiming to
simulate real-world scenarios (see Table V).
A.1 Simulated-malicious Dataset

Due to the significant malicious potential of unsafe visual
content, previous works have sought to mitigate the risk of
Output-level Defense leverages post-processing techniques
generating genuinely harmful images in T2I jailbreak attacks.
to adjust decoding strategies or rephrase the generated content,
To achieve this, researchers [70], [77], [97] have typically
aiming to neutralize potentially offensive elements.
selected specific categories from benign datasets to serve as
Decoding-based defense. Calibrating the logit distribution proxies for unsafe classes, thereby avoiding the generation
during decoding can steer the model’s output away from unsafe of real-world malicious imagery during model evaluation
and testing. For instance, SneakyPrompt [77] introduces the
directions.
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. CoCA [143] uses a Dog/Cat-100 dataset, which contains 100 prompts generated by
contrastive decoding strategy by computing the logit difference GPT models describing scenarios involving dogs or cats. Simibetween responses with and without the safety principle, termed larly, UPAM [70] utilizes the Microsoft COCO dataset [156],
the safety delta. This delta is subsequently used to adjust token a comprehensive resource containing image-text pairs, and
generation probabilities. On the other hand, IMMUNE [144] designates 10 specific classes (e.g., boat, bird, clock) as
employs a safety reward function that assigns higher scores to ”harmful” categories. Additionally, UnlearnDiffAtk [97] selects
samples from the WikiArt [157] and Imagenette [158] datasets,
safe responses and lower scores to unsafe ones.
to conduct attacks related to stylization and object manipulation.
Refiner-based defense. Employing a refiner (e.g., a generative
model) to rephrase or edit the model’s response can also A.2 Real-malicious Dataset
eliminate toxicity.
Real-malicious datasets include prompts intended to elicit
• Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. MLLM- discomfort or cause harm, covering common scenarios such
Protector [145] comprises two core components: a lightweight as pornography, violence, and gore, which are prohibited by
harm detector, which identifies harmful content in model the usage policies of OpenAI [159] and Meta [160]. Some
outputs, and a response detoxifier, which transforms harmful commonly used datasets in Table V are outlined as follows:
responses into benign ones. Instead of using external detoxifiers,
ECSO [146] leverages the self-contained MLLM to transform Image + Text → Text (IT2T) Models. Existing attack methods
malicious input images into plain texts in a query-aware manner. typically utilize text-based jailbreak datasets [48], [152], [153]
Safe response generation, free from image inputs, is then combined with real-world images [89], [90], AI-generated
performed to restore the model’s intrinsic safety mechanism. images [72], [73], [81] or adversarial images [60], [87], [93],
• Text → Image (T2I) Models. LMIVS [147] begins with [95] for executing multimodal jailbreaks.
• AdvBench [48] prompts uncensored LLMs to generate
a Visual Commonsense Immorality Recognizer that detects
two
settings of harmful strings and harmful behaviors. Harmful
immoral content in generated images. Subsequently, textual
strings
encompass diverse detrimental content while harmful
and visual immoral attribute localizers identify and highlight
behaviors
are framed as instructions aligned with the themes
specific attributes contributing to the image’s immorality. Once
of
the
harmful
strings.
these attributes are identified, the method applies ethical image
•
RedTeam-2K
[152] comprises 2,000 meticulously crafted
manipulation techniques to transform the content, ultimately
harmful
queries
from
16 safety policies and 8 diverse sources,
generating morally acceptable outputs.
including GPT Rewrite, Handcraft, GPT Generate, and several
existing datasets.
• HarmBench [153] encompasses 510 unique harmful
V. E VALUATION
behaviors, split into 400 textual behaviors and 110 multimodal
Evaluation methods are essential for providing a standardized behaviors, which are designed to violate laws or societal norms.
basis for comparing various jailbreak attack and defense
Another line of datasets comprises adversarial image-text
techniques. In this section, we first review existing evaluation pairs that can successfully jailbreak MLLMs. These datasets
datasets relevant to jailbreak scenarios, followed by an overview provide a rigorous basis for defense evaluation, enabling newly
of open-ended evaluation methods and metrics.
proposed defense methods to be systematically validated.

B.4 Output-level Defense

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
TABLE V: Comparison of publicly available representative evaluation datasets. Collected: raw data created by humans or
collected from real-world websites. Reconstructed: Data reorganized from other existing datasets. Synthesized: AI-generated
data using LLM or diffusion models. Adversarial: Adversarial data generated by jailbreak attack methods. [link] directs to
dataset websites.
Dataset

Venue

Model

Text Source
Collected

Reconstructed

Image Source

Synthesized

Adversarial

Collected

Reconstructed

Synthesized

Adversarial

Volume

Theme

AdvBench [48] [link]

[arXiv’23]

I+T→T

-

-

"

-

-

-

-

-
-

ReadTeam-2K [152] [link]

[arXiv’24]

I+T→T

"

"

"

-

-

-

-

-

2,000
HarmBench [153] [link]

[ICML’24]

I+T→T

"

-

-

-

-

-

-

-
4

Figstep [71] [link]

[arXiv’23]

I+T→T

-

-

"

-

-

-

-

" [71]
10

HADES [92] [link]

[ECCV’24]

I+T→T

-

-

"

-

"

-

"

" [92]
5

JailBreakV-28K [152] [link]

[arXiv’24]

I+T→T

-

-

-

" [47]–[50]

-

"

"

-

28,000
MM-SafetyBench [55] [link]

[ECCV’24]

I+T→T

-

-

"

-

-

-

"

" [55]

5,040
NSFW-200 [77] [link]

[SSP’24]

T→I

-

-

"

-

-

-

-

-
-

MMA [19] [link]

[CVPR’24]

T→I

-

"

-

" [19]

-

-

-

" [19]

1,000

-

VBCDE [69] [link]

[arXiv’23]

T→I

-

"

-

" [69]

-

-

-

-
5

MPUP [154] [link]

[arXiv’24]

T→I

-

-

"

-

-

-

-

-

1,200
I2P [139] [link]

[CVPR’23]

T→I

"

-

-

-

"

-

-

-

4,703
Unsafe Diffusion [155] [link]

[CCS’23]

T→I

"

"

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,434

-

MACE-Celebrity [130] [link]

[CVPR’24]

T→I

"

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000

-

MACE-Art [130] [link]

[CVPR’24]

T→I

-

"

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000

-

T2VSafetyBench [20] [link]

[NeurIPS’24]

T→V

-

"

"

" [52]–[54]

-

-

-

-

4,400
• Figstep [71] identifies 10 safety-critical scenarios and
• MPUP [154] encompasses three high-risk scenarios: hate
leverages GPT-4 to generate 50 distinct malicious questions for speech, physical harm, and fraud, with a total of 1,200 unsafe
each scenario. These questions are subsequently transformed prompts. These prompts are generated by guiding GPT-4 with
into imperative sentences and converted as visual prompts using scenario-specific instructions, followed by manual selection
typographic techniques.
and refinement.
• HADES [92] employs GPT-4 to generate 50 keywords for
• I2P [139] comprises 4,703 harmful prompts sourced
each harmful category and synthesize three distinct harmful from real-world websites (i.e., Lexica), spanning seven distinct
instructions based on each keyword, each paired with images themes, and pairing them with harmful images obtained from
collected from real-world websites. Additionally, this dataset those same websites.
includes jailbreak images generated through the combination
Although the I2P [139] dataset is widely used for evaluating
of typographic images, synthesized images, and adversarial jailbreak attacks [53], [54], [76], [96], [97], a group of defense
noise.
works [61], [128], [131], [133], [138] construct jailbreak
• JailBreakV-28K [152] is developed based on the RedTeam- prompts based on I2P to assess the robustness of proposed
2K [152] dataset and incorporates a diverse array of jailbreak defense mechanisms. In addition to the I2P dataset, other
attacks to construct jailbreak prompts. These prompts are paired datasets have been developed to enable a more customized
with four categories of images: blank images, random noise approach to studying jailbreak defenses.
images, natural images, and synthesized images generated using
• Unsafe Diffusion [155] focuses on demystifying the
stable diffusion. The benchmark covers 16 distinct themes and generation of unsafe images and hate memes from T2I models.
encompasses a comprehensive total of 28,000 test cases.
The study collects harmful prompts from sources such as the
• MM-SafetyBench [55] instructs GPT-4 to generate multiple Lexica website, and a manually created template-based dataset,
malicious questions for each scenario and extract unsafe key along with harmless prompts from the MS COCO [162] dataset,
phrases from these questions. Using the key phrases, the resulting in a collection of 1,434 prompts in total.
dataset incorporates synthesized images and typography images,
• MACE-Celebrity [130]. To evaluate the celebrity erasure
creating a unified visual representation of the malicious content.
task, MACE-Celebrity consists of a database containing 200
Text → Image/Video (T2I/T2V) Models. These datasets celebrity names, each embedded within five predefined text
primarily consist of malicious prompts designed to evaluate the prompts.
generation of inappropriate content in T2I and T2V models.
• MACE-Art [130]. To evaluate the artistic style erasure task,
• NSFW-200 [77] includes 200 prompts with malicious MACE-Art selects 200 artist names from the Image Synthesis
Style Studies [163] database and applies each of them to a
content generated by using ChatGPT models.
• MMA [19] selects 1,000 captions with high harmfulness different set of five predefined text prompts.
scores from the LAION-COCO dataset [161]. Moreover, the
• T2VSafetyBench [20] is designed to evaluate the safety of
dataset includes adversarial prompts and images generated T2V models, focusing on 12 critical safety aspects including
using the corresponding jailbreak methods.
pornography, violence, and discrimination. It constructs a
• VBCDE [69] comprises 100 test cases covering five harm- dataset of 4,400 malicious prompts sourced from existing
ful categories of violence, gore, illegal activities, discrimination, datasets, GPT-generated prompts, and jailbreak attack-based
and pornographic content, with approximately 20 sensitive prompts, providing a comprehensive evaluation of model safety
prompts in each category.
across diverse scenarios.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
TABLE VI: Toxicity detectors are employed as automatic
evaluation for multi-modal generative models.

Jailbreak Evaluation

Toxicity detector

Automatic

Manual

Access
Text Detectors

Detector-based

LLM-based

Text Detector
LLama-Guard

Image Detector
NudeNet

LLama-Guard2

Q16

Detoxify

Safety Checker

GPTFuzzer

Imgcensor

Perspective API

MHSC

Rule-based
Keyword

Embedding

LLama-Guard [148]

https://huggingface.co/meta-llama

LLama-Guard2 [149]

https://huggingface.co/meta-llama

Detoxify [167]

https://github.com/unitaryai/detoxify

GPTFUZZER [168]
Perspective API [169]

https://huggingface.co/hubert233/GPTFuzz/tree/main
https://perspectiveapi.com/
Image Detectors

NudeNet [150]
Q16 [151]

https://github.com/platelminto/NudeNetClassifier
https://github.com/ml-research/Q16

Safety Checker [170]

https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-safety-checker

Imgcensor [171]

https://github.com/lucasxlu/XCloud/tree/master/research/imgcensor

MHSC [155]

https://github.com/YitingQu/unsafe-diffusion

Fig. 9: Taxonomy of jailbreak evaluation method against
multimodal generative models.

B. Evaluation Method
In contrast to traditional visual-question answering
datasets [164], [165], generative models produce answers in an
open-ended format, complicating subjective evaluation. This
open-ended nature presents challenges in balancing evaluation
costs with maintaining accuracy. To tackle these challenges,
we have outlined diverse evaluation methods for determining
relevant metrics, as illustrated in Fig. 9. These methods are
primarily classified into two categories: manual evaluation and
automated evaluation.
B.1 Manual Evaluation

• Text Detector. Toxicity detectors for detecting harmful
text encompass several models, including LLama-Guard [148],
LLama-Guard2 [149], Detoxify [167], GPTFuzzer [168], and
Perspective API [169]. 1) LLama-Guard series models.
LLama-Guard and LLama-Guard2 are fine-tuned on the
LLaMA-based [172] models, enabling them to perform multiclass classification and generate binary decision scores for
harmful responses. 2) Detoxify. Detoxify is working to mitigate
harmful online content by identifying toxic comments. 3)
GPTFuzzer. GPTFuzzer identifies harmful responses by finetuning the RoBERTa model [173] on manually curated datasets
with human judgments. 4) Perspective API. Perspective API
employs machine learning models to identify abusive comments
by scoring phrases based on their potential impact within a
conversation.

Manual evaluation involves human assessment to determine
• Image Detector. Toxicity detectors for detecting harmful
if the content is toxic, offering a direct and interpretable method
of evaluation. Manual evaluation can be categorized into two images primarily include NudeNet [150], Q16 [151], SD Safety
types: full evaluation and partial evaluation. Full evaluation Checker [170], Imgcensor [171], Multi-headed Safety Classifier
involves assessing the entire responses, some works [21], [66], (MHSC) [155]. 1) NudeNet. NudeNet detector is employed in
[88], [93] have adopted this approach, conducting detailed the process of categorizing images based on the presence of
quantitative experiments to provide a comprehensive analysis “nudity”, which has 4 fine-grained nudity labels. 2) Q16. Q16
of the jailbreak performance. Since full evaluation is labor- is fine-tuned using harmful images and corresponding caption
intensive and time-consuming, partial dataset evaluation focuses data, enabling it to detect a broader range of inappropriate
on evaluating a representative subset of the data. For instance, topics, such as violence and misogyny. 3) SD Safety Checker.
other works [117], [118], [166] use manual evaluation to verify The SD Safety Checker is integrated into the output stage of
Stable Diffusion to detect unsafe elements within generated
the validity of other automatic evaluations.
images. 4) Imgcensor. Imgcensor offers recognition capabilities
B.2 Automatic Evaluation
for images depicting pornography and political figures, utilizing
Given the high cost and time-consuming nature of human various deep and non-deep learning-based methods. 5) MHSC.
evaluation, recent works [55], [90], [148], [155], [166] have MHSC supports fine-grained detection, which builds a multiincreasingly focused on developing automated methods to headed image safety classifier that detects five unsafe categories
evaluate the toxicity of generated content across different simultaneously.
modalities. These approaches can be categorized into three
types: detector-based evaluation, GPT-based evaluation, and LLM-based Evaluation. Powerful LLMs especially for GPT4, have increasingly been employed as safety evaluators in
rule-based evaluation.
recent research [20], [55], [69], [82], [104], [133], [166].
Detector-based Evaluation. Detector-based evaluation utilizes Unlike specialized detectors constrained by specific themes,
pre-trained classifiers to automatically detect toxic content LLMs exhibit exceptional effectiveness in identifying jailbreak
within generated outputs. These classifiers are trained on behaviors across diverse scenarios. Specifically, LLMs are
extensive, annotated datasets that encompass a broad spectrum employed to perform nuanced semantic analysis to assess
of unsafe categories, including toxicity, violence, or explicit the consistency between generated content and ground-truth
material.
annotations.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021
Rule-based Evaluation. Rule-based evaluation typically de- [70], [102] that generate low-perplexity prompts are becoming
pends on predefined rules or patterns to assess the alignment increasingly noteworthy. Formally, let W = (w1 , w2 , ..., wn )
between generated content and expected outputs. For instance, denote a text sequence where wi represents the i-th token. The
keywords can be used to identify the presence of essential perplexity of the sequence W is defined as:
!
concepts, while embedding-based matching ensures that the
n
X
semantic meaning of the output aligns with ground-truth
P P L (W ) = exp −
log pθ (wi |w<i )
(15)
n i=1
annotations.
• Keyword-based. Several works [62], [79], [90] on MLLMs where p (w |w ) represents the probability assigned by
θ
i <i
have proposed methods to identify responses containing pre- MLLMs to the i-th token, conditioned on all preceding tokens
defined refusal keywords, such as “I am sorry” or “I cannot.” in the sequence.
These refusal keywords act as indicators that the model is
• Frechet Inception Distance. Frechet Inception Distance
adhering to safety protocols by refusing to generate harmful (FID) [175] quantifies the distance between real and generated
or inappropriate content.
images. It calculates the distance between the feature representa• Embedding-based. Embedding-based approaches in T2I tions of real and generated images, as captured by a pre-trained
tasks [67], [69], [70] aim to evaluate the semantic quality of network, thereby assessing how closely the generated images
generated images. By extracting high-dimensional vectors from resemble real-world images. The lower the FID score, the
encoders such as the CLIP model, these methods can compute better the quality of the generated images, indicating closer
their cosine similarity score to assess semantic alignment alignment with real images. FID is computed as follows:
between the generated images and target harmfulness.


p
F ID = ∥µr − µg ∥ + T r Σr + Σg − 2 Σr Σg
(16)
C. Evaluation Metric
Where µ and µ represent the mean vectors of the real and
r

Evaluation metrics can be broadly categorized into two primary types: robustness metrics and utility metrics. Robustness
metrics are designed to assess the resilience of a model against
jailbreak inputs. Utility metrics evaluate the relevance, accuracy,
and overall quality of the content generated by the model.
C.1 Robustness Metrics
The attack success rate (ASR) is a widely used metric to
evaluate the robustness of attack and defense. In the context of
the attack, a higher ASR indicates that the generated content
successfully bypasses model safeguards, leading to harmful
outputs. On the defense side, a reduction in ASR suggests
that the defense mechanisms are effective in preventing the
generation of unsafe content.
• Attack Success Rate. The Attack Success Rate (ASR)
quantifies the proportion of successful attacks out of the total
number of attempts. Formally, let Ntotal denotes the total
number of jailbreak inputs and Nsuccess denotes the number
of successful attacks. The ASR can then be defined as:
Nsuccess
ASR =
(14)
Ntotal
C.2 Utility Metrics
Utility Metrics include indicators designed to evaluate
content quality across different modalities. Specifically, Prompt
Perplexity measures the coherence and fluency of textual
prompts. For visual content, Frechet Inception Distance measures the visual quality of generated images, and the CLIP
Score evaluates the semantic alignment between images and
their target intent.
• Prompt Perplexity. Perplexity (PPL) [174] serves as a
metric for evaluating the readability and linguistic fluency of
jailbreak prompts. Many adversarial prompts targeting MLLMs
tend to contain garbled or nonsensical characters, which makes
them easily detectable and filtered by defense methods that rely
on high-perplexity detection. As a result, attack methods [66],

g

generated image distributions, respectively, and Σr and Σg are
the corresponding covariance matrices.
• CLIP Score. CLIP Score [176] measures the alignment
of the generated images with their corresponding descriptions.
This approach first utilizes the CLIP model Eclip to extract the
semantic embeddings of adversarial images. The CLIP Score
is then obtained by calculating the cosine similarity between
malicious adversarial images yadv and the clean prompts xclean
modified from the toxic content:
CLIP Score = Cos (Eclip (yadv ) , Eclip (xclean ))

(17)

VI. F UTURE W ORK
Jailbreak attack and defense against multimodal generative
models remains a very challenging and open research task.
In this section, we share key insights into future research
directions for multimodal model jailbreaks, pinpointing what
is missing in the current research and identifying directions
worth further exploration.
A. Multimodal Jailbreak Attack
• Expand Multimodal Vulnerabilities. With the advancement of multimodal generative models, input-output
configurations have expanded to include video and audio
modalities, which remain relatively underexplored in the context
of jailbreak attacks and defenses. Unlike text and images,
the temporal dependencies of video frames and the inherent
acoustic features of audio present unique challenges in both
launching and defending against jailbreak attacks. There is
an urgent need for further research into the vulnerabilities of
models in the video and audio modalities, which will facilitate
the development of more robust safety alignment mechanisms.
• Joint Modal Optimization. Another interesting research
direction is to explore the joint optimization between multiple
modalities to achieve competitive attack performance more
deceptively. Several pioneering studies have been conducted,

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

e.g., [95] executes jailbreaks by jointly optimizing textual and
visual prompts. Under this context, the adversary does not treat
each modality in isolation but instead looks for strategies in
which the different modalities can interact to exploit model
vulnerabilities in a unified manner.
• Combined Multimodal Output. Most existing research
focuses on either any-to-text [18], [55], [62]–[64], [71]–[74],
[79], [80] or any-to-vision models [19], [52], [66], [67], [69],
[70], [76]–[78], [82], [85], primarily addressing single-modality
output configurations. However, the potential for harmful
multimodal outputs generated by any-to-any models remains
largely unexplored. Compared with single-modality jailbreak
outputs, combined text-image-video-audio outputs can amplify
the credibility and psychological influence of the harmful
content. For instance, malicious textual descriptions paired with
manipulated visual content, synchronized audio commentary,
and supporting video sequences, can collaboratively create a
unified and deceptive message.
entertainment or education. These schemes would allow the
security levels of defense policies to be dynamically adjusted.

C. Multimodal Jailbreak Evaluation
• Scope of Specialized Detectors. Current specialized
detectors for automatic evaluation primarily focus on a limited
set of harmful concepts, such as violence and pornography.
This narrow scope significantly limits the ability to assess a
broader spectrum of harmful content, including hate speech,
misinformation, and cybercrime. Future research should prioritize expanding the capabilities of automated detectors to
cover a more comprehensive range of harmful categories. By
developing detectors capable of addressing diverse harmful
concepts, the safety evaluation of multimodal models can
become more robust and better aligned with the complex
challenges encountered in real-world applications.
• Comprehensive Evaluation Benchmark. The robustness
of multimodal defense mechanisms is typically evaluated using
a limited set of attack methods, which often falls short of
comprehensively assessing their effectiveness [61], [128], [131],
B. Multimodal Jailbreak Defense
[133], [138]. To address this, future research should prioritize
• Hybrid Defense System. Defense methods relying solely the development of a comprehensive benchmark dataset that
on fine-tuning models often fail to adapt to the evolving strate- incorporates a wide variety of attack methods across diverse
gies of attackers. Conversely, training-free methods frequently scenarios. The establishment of a standardized evaluation
fall short in delivering the necessary effectiveness and accuracy. framework would not only promote consistency in research
Future research should prioritize the development of hybrid methodologies but also facilitate fair comparisons between
defense systems that integrate diverse techniques to enhance defense strategies.
robustness and adaptability. Such a system would combine
external refiners with internal tuning-based and guidance-driven
VII. C ONCLUSION
strategies to promote collaboration.
The increasing prevalence of multimodal generative models
• Overall Quality Preserving. Fine-tuning pre-trained genhas raised significant concerns about their security and relierative models to erasure unsafe concepts has shown promising
ability, particularly in the context of jailbreak attacks. As a
progress in defending against jailbreak attacks. However, the
result, extensive research has been devoted to both developing
process of erasing or unlearning a large number of concepts may
and defending against such attacks. This paper presents a
result in a degradation of overall generation quality [121], [130],
comprehensive overview of jailbreak methods targeting multi[133], [142] including reduced coherence, fidelity and diversity
modal generative models, systematically categorizing attack and
in generated outputs. To mitigate these challenges, there is
defense techniques across four key levels. We provide a holistic
growing interest in developing adaptive forgetting mechanisms
evaluation covering a broad range of modality combinations,
that selectively target unsafe concepts while preserving adjacent
including text, image, audio, and video, along with different
knowledge, as well as quality restoration strategies to maintain
architectures of the multimodal generative model, such as Anythe quality of generative outputs.
to-Text, Any-to-Vision, and Any-to-Any models. Additionally,
• Transparency and Explainability. As defense mechwe not only compare existing evaluation datasets, methods,
anisms become increasingly complex, ensuring their transand metrics but also propose critical challenges and potential
parency and explainability has become a critical research focus.
future directions. While many challenges remain, we hope
Some pioneer efforts such as GuardT2I [106], have explored
this paper inspires further discussion and provides strategic
optimizing language models to interpret the malicious intent
guidance for future research, ultimately contributing to the
behind adversarial inputs. However, further endeavors are imsafety and reliability of foundational models.
perative to enable both users and developers to comprehensively
understand the inner workings of these defense mechanisms,
R EFERENCES
including their strengths and limitations.
[1] C. Team, “Chameleon: Mixed-modal early-fusion foundation models,”
• Personalized Defense Schemes. To address the varying
arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.09818, 2024.
security needs of different application scenarios, future research
[2] X. Wang, X. Zhang, Z. Luo, Q. Sun, Y. Cui, J. Wang, F. Zhang, Y. Wang,
Z. Li, Q. Yu et al., “Emu3: Next-token prediction is all you need,” arXiv
should focus on developing personalized defense schemes.
preprint arXiv:2409.18869, 2024.
First, enhanced stringency for sensitive content in high-stakes
[3] H. Liu, C. Li, Q. Wu, and Y. J. Lee, “Visual instruction tuning,” in
scenarios such as financial systems, healthcare applications,
Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2023.
or government communications. Second, balancing security
[4] H. Zhang, X. Li, and L. Bing, “Video-llama: An instruction-tuned
with the need for broader generative variability in scenarios
audio-visual language model for video understanding,” in Proceedings
that prioritize creative outputs, such as content generation for
of the Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2023.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[5] Z. Kong, A. Goel, R. Badlani, W. Ping, R. Valle, and B. Catanzaro,
“Audio flamingo: A novel audio language model with few-shot learning
and dialogue abilities,” in Proceedings of the International Conference
on Machine Learning, 2024.
[6] J. Xiao, A. Yao, Y. Li, and T.-S. Chua, “Can i trust your answer?
visually grounded video question answering,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[7] X. Liu, P. P. Li, H. Huang, Z. Li, X. Cui, W. Deng, Z. He et al., “Fkaowl: Advancing multimodal fake news detection through knowledgeaugmented lvlms,” in Proceedings of the ACM International Conference
on Multimedia, 2024.
[8] X. Liu, Z. Li, P. Li, S. Xia, X. Cui, L. Huang, H. Huang, W. Deng,
and Z. He, “Mmfakebench: A mixed-source multimodal misinformation
detection benchmark for lvlms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08772, 2024.
[9] J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel, “Denoising diffusion probabilistic models,”
in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2020.
[10] R. Rombach, A. Blattmann, D. Lorenz, P. Esser, and B. Ommer, “Highresolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2022.
[11] J. Ho, T. Salimans, A. Gritsenko, W. Chan, M. Norouzi, and D. J. Fleet,
“Video diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2022.
[12] X. Cui, Z. Li, P. Li, H. Huang, X. Liu, and Z. He, “Instastyle: Inversion
noise of a stylized image is secretly a style adviser,” in Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[13] X. Cui, P. Li, Z. Li, X. Liu, Y. Zou, and Z. He, “Localize, understand,
collaborate: Semantic-aware dragging via intention reasoner,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2024.
[14] J. Christian, “Amazing “jailbreak” bypasses chatgpt’s ethics safeguards,”
Futurism, February, 2023.
[15] Albert, “Jailbreak chat,” https://www.jailbreakchat.com/, 2023.
[16] H. Li, D. Guo, W. Fan, M. Xu, J. Huang, F. Meng, and Y. Song,
“Multi-step jailbreaking privacy attacks on chatgpt,” in Proceedings of
the Findings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
2023.
[17] A. Wei, N. Haghtalab, and J. Steinhardt, “Jailbroken: How does
llm safety training fail?” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[18] E. Shayegani, Y. Dong, and N. Abu-Ghazaleh, “Jailbreak in pieces:
Compositional adversarial attacks on multi-modal language models,” in
Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[19] Y. Yang, R. Gao, X. Wang, T.-Y. Ho, N. Xu, and Q. Xu, “Mma-diffusion:
Multimodal attack on diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[20] Y. Miao, Y. Zhu, Y. Dong, L. Yu, J. Zhu, and X.-S. Gao,
“T2vsafetybench: Evaluating the safety of text-to-video generative
models,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2024.
[21] X. Shen, Y. Wu, M. Backes, and Y. Zhang, “Voice jailbreak attacks
against gpt-4o,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.19103, 2024.
[22] D. Liu, M. Yang, X. Qu, P. Zhou, W. Hu, and Y. Cheng, “A survey
of attacks on large vision-language models: Resources, advances, and
future trends,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07403, 2024.
[23] H. Jin, L. Hu, X. Li, P. Zhang, C. Chen, J. Zhuang, and H. Wang,
“Jailbreakzoo: Survey, landscapes, and horizons in jailbreaking large
language and vision-language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01599,
2024.
[24] C. Zhang, M. Hu, W. Li, and L. Wang, “Adversarial attacks and defenses
on text-to-image diffusion models: A survey,” in Proceedings of the
Information Fusion, 2024.
[25] V. T. Truong, L. B. Dang, and L. B. Le, “Attacks and defenses for
generative diffusion models: A comprehensive survey,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.03400, 2024.
[26] S. Wang, Z. Long, Z. Fan, and Z. Wei, “From llms to mllms: Exploring
the landscape of multimodal jailbreaking,” in Proceedings of the
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2024.
[27] D. Zhu, J. Chen, X. Shen, X. Li, and M. Elhoseiny, “Minigpt-4:
Enhancing vision-language understanding with advanced large language
models,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.
[28] W. Dai, J. Li, D. Li, A. M. H. Tiong, J. Zhao, W. Wang, B. Li,
P. Fung, and S. C. H. Hoi, “Instructblip: Towards general-purpose
vision-language models with instruction tuning,” in Proceedings of the
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[29] B. Lin, B. Zhu, Y. Ye, M. Ning, P. Jin, and L. Yuan, “Video-llava:
Learning united visual representation by alignment before projection,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10122, 2023.
[30] P. K. Rubenstein, C. Asawaroengchai, D. D. Nguyen, A. Bapna,
Z. Borsos, F. d. C. Quitry, P. Chen, D. E. Badawy, W. Han, E. Kharitonov
et al., “Audiopalm: A large language model that can speak and listen,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.12925, 2023.
[31] “Midjourney,” https://midjourney.com/.
[32] OpenAI, “Moderation overview,” https://platform.openai.com/docs/
guides/moderation/overview.
[33] N. Ruiz, Y. Li, V. Jampani, Y. Pritch, M. Rubinstein, and K. Aberman,
“Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subjectdriven generation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp. 22 500–22 510.
[34] J. Xu, X. Wang, Y.-P. Cao, W. Cheng, Y. Shan, and S. Gao, “Instructp2p:
Learning to edit 3d point clouds with text instructions,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.07154, 2023.
[35] Z. Zheng, X. Peng, T. Yang, C. Shen, S. Li, H. Liu, Y. Zhou,
T. Li, and Y. You, “Open-sora: Democratizing efficient video
production for all,” March 2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//github.com/hpcaitech/Open-Sora
[36] A. Blattmann, T. Dockhorn, S. Kulal, D. Mendelevitch, M. Kilian,
D. Lorenz, Y. Levi, Z. English, V. Voleti, A. Letts et al., “Stable video
diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023.
[37] D. Kondratyuk, L. Yu, X. Gu, J. Lezama, J. Huang, G. Schindler,
R. Hornung, V. Birodkar, J. Yan, M. Chiu, K. Somandepalli, H. Akbari,
Y. Alon, Y. Cheng, J. V. Dillon, A. Gupta, M. Hahn, A. Hauth,
D. Hendon, A. Martinez, D. Minnen, M. Sirotenko, K. Sohn, X. Yang,
H. Adam, M. Yang, I. Essa, H. Wang, D. A. Ross, B. Seybold, and
L. Jiang, “Videopoet: A large language model for zero-shot video
generation,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2024.
[38] Z. Yang, J. Teng, W. Zheng, M. Ding, S. Huang, J. Xu, Y. Yang,
W. Hong, X. Zhang, G. Feng et al., “Cogvideox: Text-to-video diffusion
models with an expert transformer,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06072,
2024.
[39] S. Wu, H. Fei, L. Qu, W. Ji, and T.-S. Chua, “Next-gpt: Any-to-any
multimodal llm,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning, 2024.
[40] P. Lu, B. Peng, H. Cheng, M. Galley, K. Chang, Y. N. Wu, S. Zhu,
and J. Gao, “Chameleon: Plug-and-play compositional reasoning with
large language models,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[41] OpenAI, “GPT-4o System Card,” OpenAI, Technical Report, 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-system-card/
[42] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal,
G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark et al., “Learning transferable
visual models from natural language supervision,” in Proceedings of
the International Conference on Machine Learning, 2021.
[43] W.-L. Chiang, Z. Li, Z. Lin, Y. Sheng, Z. Wu, H. Zhang, L. Zheng,
S. Zhuang, Y. Zhuang, J. E. Gonzalez et al., “Vicuna: An open-source
chatbot impressing gpt-4 with 90%* chatgpt quality,” https://vicuna.
lmsys. org, 2023.
[44] G. Team, R. Anil, S. Borgeaud, J.-B. Alayrac, J. Yu, R. Soricut,
J. Schalkwyk, A. M. Dai, A. Hauth, K. Millican et al., “Gemini: a family
of highly capable multimodal models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805,
2023.
[45] Y. Huang, J. Huang, Y. Liu, M. Yan, J. Lv, J. Liu, W. Xiong, H. Zhang,
S. Chen, and L. Cao, “Diffusion model-based image editing: A survey,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17525, 2024.
[46] J. Ho and T. Salimans, “Classifier-free diffusion guidance,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.12598, 2022.
[47] Y. Liu, G. Deng, Z. Xu, Y. Li, Y. Zheng, Y. Zhang, L. Zhao, T. Zhang,
K. Wang, and Y. Liu, “Jailbreaking chatgpt via prompt engineering: An
empirical study,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13860, 2023.
[48] A. Zou, Z. Wang, N. Carlini, M. Nasr, J. Z. Kolter, and M. Fredrikson,
“Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15043, 2023.
[49] N. Xu, F. Wang, B. Zhou, B. Li, C. Xiao, and M. Chen, “Cognitive
overload: Jailbreaking large language models with overloaded logical
thinking,” in Proceedings of the Findings of the North American
Conference on Chinese Linguistics, 2024.
[50] Y. Zeng, H. Lin, J. Zhang, D. Yang, R. Jia, and W. Shi, “How johnny
can persuade llms to jailbreak them: Rethinking persuasion to challenge

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

AI safety by humanizing llms,” in Proceedings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2024.
[51] X. Liu, N. Xu, M. Chen, and C. Xiao, “Autodan: Generating stealthy
jailbreak prompts on aligned large language models,” in Proceedings
of the International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[52] Y. Tian, X. Yang, Y. Dong, H. Yang, H. Su, and J. Zhu, “Bspa: Exploring
black-box stealthy prompt attacks against image generators,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.15218, 2024.
[53] Y.-L. Tsai, C.-Y. Hsu, C. Xie, C.-H. Lin, J.-Y. Chen, B. Li, P.-Y. Chen, C.M. Yu, and C.-Y. Huang, “Ring-a-bell! how reliable are concept removal
methods for diffusion models?” in Proceedings of the International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[54] J. Ma, A. Cao, Z. Xiao, J. Zhang, C. Ye, and J. Zhao, “Jailbreaking
prompt attack: A controllable adversarial attack against diffusion
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.02928, 2024.
[55] X. Liu, Y. Zhu, J. Gu, Y. Lan, C. Yang, and Y. Qiao, “Mm-safetybench:
A benchmark for safety evaluation of multimodal large language models,”
in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[56] J. Rando, H. Korevaar, E. Brinkman, I. Evtimov, and F. Tramèr,
“Gradient-based jailbreak images for multimodal fusion models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.03489, 2024.
[57] F. Bianchi, M. Suzgun, G. Attanasio, P. Röttger, D. Jurafsky,
T. Hashimoto, and J. Zou, “Safety-tuned llamas: Lessons from improving
the safety of large language models that follow instructions,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations,
2024.
[58] Y. Bai, A. Jones, K. Ndousse, A. Askell, A. Chen, N. DasSarma,
D. Drain, S. Fort, D. Ganguli, T. Henighan et al., “Training a helpful and
harmless assistant with reinforcement learning from human feedback,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05862, 2022.
[59] M. Z. Hossain and A. Imteaj, “Sim-clip: Unsupervised siamese
adversarial fine-tuning for robust and semantically-rich vision-language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.14971, 2024.
[60] M. Z. Hossain and A. Imteaj, “Securing vision-language models with a
robust encoder against jailbreak and adversarial attacks,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.07353, 2024.
[61] S. Poppi, T. Poppi, F. Cocchi, M. Cornia, L. Baraldi, R. Cucchiara et al.,
“Safe-clip: Removing nsfw concepts from vision-and-language models,”
in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[62] Y. Wu, Y. Huang, Y. Liu, X. Li, P. Zhou, and L. Sun, “Can large
language models automatically jailbreak gpt-4v?” in Proceedings of the
North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics Workshops, 2024.
[63] Y. Liu, C. Cai, X. Zhang, X. Yuan, and C. Wang, “Arondight: Red
teaming large vision language models with auto-generated multi-modal
jailbreak prompts,” in Proceedings of the ACM International Conference
on Multimedia, 2024.
[64] C. Xu, M. Kang, J. Zhang, Z. Liao, L. Mo, M. Yuan, H. Sun, and
B. Li, “Advweb: Controllable black-box attacks on vlm-powered web
agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.17401, 2024.
[65] J. Rando, D. Paleka, D. Lindner, L. Heim, and F. Tramèr, “Red-teaming
the stable diffusion safety filter,” in Proceedings of the Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems Workshops, 2022.
[66] Y. Huang, L. Liang, T. Li, X. Jia, R. Wang, W. Miao, G. Pu, and
Y. Liu, “Perception-guided jailbreak against text-to-image models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2408.10848, 2024.
[67] Z. Ba, J. Zhong, J. Lei, P. Cheng, Q. Wang, Z. Qin, Z. Wang, and
K. Ren, “Surrogateprompt: Bypassing the safety filter of text-to-image
models via substitution,” in Proceedings of the ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security, 2024.
[68] Y. Ma, S. Pang, Q. Guo, T. Wei, and Q. Guo, “Coljailbreak: Collaborative generation and editing for jailbreaking text-to-image deep
generation,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2024.
[69] Y. Deng and H. Chen, “Divide-and-conquer attack: Harnessing the
power of llm to bypass the censorship of text-to-image generation
model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.07130, 2023.
[70] D. Peng, Q. Ke, and J. Liu, “Upam: Unified prompt attack in text-toimage generation models against both textual filters and visual checkers,”
in Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning,
2024.
[71] Y. Gong, D. Ran, J. Liu, C. Wang, T. Cong, A. Wang, S. Duan,
and X. Wang, “Figstep: Jailbreaking large vision-language models via
typographic visual prompts,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.05608, 2023.
[72] X. Zou and Y. Chen, “Image-to-text logic jailbreak: Your imagination
can help you do anything,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.02534, 2024.
[73] S. Ma, W. Luo, Y. Wang, X. Liu, M. Chen, B. Li, and C. Xiao, “Visualroleplay: Universal jailbreak attack on multimodal large language models
via role-playing image characte,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20773,
2024.
[74] H. Yang, L. Qu, E. Shareghi, and G. Haffari, “Audio is the achilles’
heel: Red teaming audio large multimodal models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.23861, 2024.
[75] T. Chen, K. Wang, and H. Wei, “Zer0-jack: A memory-efficient gradientbased jailbreaking method for black-box multi-modal large language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.07559, 2024.
[76] P. Dang, X. Hu, D. Li, R. Zhang, Q. Guo, and K. Xu, “Diffzoo: A purely
query-based black-box attack for red-teaming text-to-image generative
model via zeroth order optimization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11071,
2024.
[77] Y. Yang, B. Hui, H. Yuan, N. Gong, and Y. Cao, “Sneakyprompt:
Jailbreaking text-to-image generative models,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2024.
[78] S. Gao, X. Jia, Y. Huang, R. Duan, J. Gu, Y. Liu, and Q. Guo, “Rtattack: Jailbreaking text-to-image models via random token,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2408.13896, 2024.
[79] Y. Wu, X. Li, Y. Liu, P. Zhou, and L. Sun, “Jailbreaking gpt-4v
via self-adversarial attacks with system prompts,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.09127, 2023.
[80] C. Cui, G. Deng, A. Zhang, J. Zheng, Y. Li, L. Gao, T. Zhang, and
T.-S. Chua, “Safe+ safe= unsafe? exploring how safe images can be
exploited to jailbreak large vision-language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.11496, 2024.
[81] R. Wang, B. Wang, X. Ma, and Y.-G. Jiang, “Ideator: Jailbreaking vlms
using vlms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00827, 2024.
[82] M. Kim, H. Lee, B. Gong, H. Zhang, and S. J. Hwang, “Automatic
jailbreaking of the text-to-image generative ai systems,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.16567, 2024.
[83] W. Wang, K. Gao, Z. Jia, Y. Yuan, J.-t. Huang, Q. Liu, S. Wang, W. Jiao,
and Z. Tu, “Chain-of-jailbreak attack for image generation models via
editing step by step,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.03869, 2024.
[84] Z.-Y. Chin, K.-C. Mu, M. Fritz, P.-Y. Chen, and W.-C. Chiu, “Incontext experience replay facilitates safety red-teaming of text-to-image
diffusion models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.16769, 2024.
[85] Y. Dong, Z. Li, X. Meng, N. Yu, and S. Guo, “Jailbreaking text-toimage models with llm-based agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00523,
2024.
[86] H. Tu, C. Cui, Z. Wang, Y. Zhou, B. Zhao, J. Han, W. Zhou, H. Yao,
and C. Xie, “How many unicorns are in this image? a safety evaluation
benchmark for vision llms,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16101, 2023.
[87] L. Bailey, E. Ong, S. Russell, and S. Emmons, “Image hijacks:
Adversarial images can control generative models at runtime,” in
Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning,
2024.
[88] X. Qi, K. Huang, A. Panda, P. Henderson, M. Wang, and P. Mittal,
“Visual adversarial examples jailbreak aligned large language models,”
in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2024.
[89] Z. Niu, Y. Sun, H. Ren, H. Ji, Q. Wang, X. Ma, G. Hua, and R. Jin,
“Efficient llm-jailbreaking by introducing visual modality,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.20015, 2024.
[90] Z. Niu, H. Ren, X. Gao, G. Hua, and R. Jin, “Jailbreaking attack against
multimodal large language model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.02309,
2024.
[91] N. Carlini, M. Nasr, C. A. Choquette-Choo, M. Jagielski, I. Gao,
P. W. W. Koh, D. Ippolito, F. Tramer, and L. Schmidt, “Are aligned
neural networks adversarially aligned?” in Proceedings of the Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[92] Y. Li, H. Guo, K. Zhou, W. X. Zhao, and J.-R. Wen, “Images are achilles’
heel of alignment: Exploiting visual vulnerabilities for jailbreaking
multimodal large language models,” in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[93] X. Gu, X. Zheng, T. Pang, C. Du, Q. Liu, Y. Wang, J. Jiang, and M. Lin,
“Agent smith: A single image can jailbreak one million multimodal
llm agents exponentially fast,” in Proceedings of the International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[94] R. Wang, X. Ma, H. Zhou, C. Ji, G. Ye, and Y.-G. Jiang, “Whitebox multimodal jailbreaks against large vision-language models,” in
Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Multimedia, 2024.
[95] Z. Ying, A. Liu, T. Zhang, Z. Yu, S. Liang, X. Liu, and D. Tao,
“Jailbreak vision language models via bi-modal adversarial prompt,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04031, 2024.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[96] Z.-Y. Chin, C.-M. Jiang, C.-C. Huang, P.-Y. Chen, and W.-C. Chiu,
“Prompting4debugging: Red-teaming text-to-image diffusion models
by finding problematic prompts,” in Proceedings of the International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[97] Y. Zhang, J. Jia, X. Chen, A. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, K. Ding, and
S. Liu, “To generate or not? safety-driven unlearned diffusion models
are still easy to generate unsafe images... for now,” in Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[98] X. Li, Q. Shen, and K. Kawaguchi, “Va3: Virtually assured amplification
attack on probabilistic copyright protection for text-to-image generative
models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[99] Y. Zhao, T. Pang, C. Du, X. Yang, C. Li, N.-M. M. Cheung, and M. Lin,
“On evaluating adversarial robustness of large vision-language models,”
in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2023.
[100] Y. Zeng, Y. Cao, B. Cao, Y. Chang, J. Chen, and L. Lin, “Advi2i:
Adversarial image attack on image-to-image diffusion models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.21471, 2024.
[101] S. Sivanandam, S. Deepa, S. Sivanandam, and S. Deepa, Genetic
algorithms. Springer, 2008.
[102] C.-C. Kao, C.-M. Yu, C.-S. Lu, and C.-S. Chen, “Information-theoretical
principled trade-off between jailbreakability and stealthiness on vision
language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.01438, 2024.
[103] “Leonardo.Ai,” https://leonardo.ai/2023.
[104] Y. Xu, X. Qi, Z. Qin, and W. Wang, “Defending jailbreak attack
in vlms via cross-modality information detector,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.21659, 2024.
[105] R. Liu, A. Khakzar, J. Gu, Q. Chen, P. Torr, and F. Pizzati, “Latent
guard: a safety framework for text-to-image generation,” in Proceedings
of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[106] Y. Yang, R. Gao, X. Yang, J. Zhong, and Q. Xu, “Guardt2i: Defending
text-to-image models from adversarial prompts,” in Proceedings of the
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[107] Y. Huang, F. Zhu, J. Tang, P. Zhou, W. Lei, J. Lv, and T.-S. Chua,
“Effective and efficient adversarial detection for vision-language models
via a single vector,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22888, 2024.
[108] X. Zhang, C. Zhang, T. Li, Y. Huang, X. Jia, X. Xie, Y. Liu, and
C. Shen, “Jailguard: A universal detection framework for llm promptbased attacks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10766, 2023.
[109] A. Das, V. Duddu, R. Zhang, and N. Asokan, “Espresso: Robust concept
filtering in text-to-image models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.19227,
2024.
[110] Y. Wang, X. Liu, Y. Li, M. Chen, and C. Xiao, “Adashield: Safeguarding
multimodal large language models from structure-based attack via
adaptive shield prompting,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.09513, 2024.
[111] S. Oh, Y. Jin, M. Sharma, D. Kim, E. Ma, G. Verma, and S. Kumar,
“Uniguard: Towards universal safety guardrails for jailbreak attacks on
multimodal large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01703,
2024.
[112] Y. Zhao, X. Zheng, L. Luo, Y. Li, X. Ma, and Y.-G. Jiang, “Bluesuffix:
Reinforced blue teaming for vision-language models against jailbreak
attacks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.20971, 2024.
[113] Z. Wu, H. Gao, Y. Wang, X. Zhang, and S. Wang, “Universal prompt
optimizer for safe text-to-image generation,” in Proceedings of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
2024.
[114] Y. Zhang, X. Chen, J. Jia, Y. Zhang, C. Fan, J. Liu, M. Hong, K. Ding,
and S. Liu, “Defensive unlearning with adversarial training for robust
concept erasure in diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[115] H. Li, C. Shen, P. Torr, V. Tresp, and J. Gu, “Self-discovering
interpretable diffusion latent directions for responsible text-to-image
generation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[116] H. Qiu, G. Chen, M. Zhang, and M. Yang, “Safe text-to-image
generation: Simply sanitize the prompt embedding,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.10329, 2024.
[117] Y. Zong, O. Bohdal, T. Yu, Y. Yang, and T. Hospedales, “Safety finetuning at (almost) no cost: A baseline for vision large language models,”
in Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning,
2024.
[118] Z. Liu, Y. Nie, Y. Tan, X. Yue, Q. Cui, C. Wang, X. Zhu, and
B. Zheng, “Safety alignment for vision language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.13581, 2024.
[119] Y. Chen, H. Li, Z. Zheng, and Y. Song, “Bathe: Defense against the
jailbreak attack in multimodal large language models by treating harmful
instruction as backdoor trigger,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.09093, 2024.
[120] T. Chakraborty, E. Shayegani, Z. Cai, N. Abu-Ghazaleh, M. S.
Asif, Y. Dong, A. K. Roy-Chowdhury, and C. Song, “Cross-modal
safety alignment: Is textual unlearning all you need?” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.02575, 2024.
[121] R. Gandikota, J. Materzynska, J. Fiotto-Kaufman, and D. Bau, “Erasing
concepts from diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, 2023.
[122] C.-P. Huang, K.-P. Chang, C.-T. Tsai, Y.-H. Lai, and Y.-C. F. Wang,
“Receler: Reliable concept erasing of text-to-image diffusion models
via lightweight erasers,” in Proceedings of the European Conference
on Computer Vision, 2023.
[123] C. Fan, J. Liu, Y. Zhang, D. Wei, E. Wong, and S. Liu, “Salun:
Empowering machine unlearning via gradient-based weight saliency
in both image classification and generation,” in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[124] Z. Meng, B. Peng, X. Jin, Y. Jiang, J. Dong, W. Wang, and T. Tan, “Dark
miner: Defend against unsafe generation for text-to-image diffusion
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.17682, 2024.
[125] J. Wu, T. Le, M. Hayat, and M. Harandi, “Erasediff: Erasing data
influence in diffusion models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.05779, 2024.
[126] T. Chen, S. Zhang, and M. Zhou, “Score forgetting distillation: A swift,
data-free method for machine unlearning in diffusion models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.11219, 2024.
[127] S. Kim, S. Jung, B. Kim, M. Choi, J. Shin, and J. Lee, “Towards
safe self-distillation of internet-scale text-to-image diffusion models,”
in Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning
Workshops, 2023.
[128] X. Li, Y. Yang, J. Deng, C. Yan, Y. Chen, X. Ji, and W. Xu, “Safegen:
Mitigating unsafe content generation in text-to-image models,” in
Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, 2024.
[129] R. Gandikota, H. Orgad, Y. Belinkov, J. Materzyńska, and D. Bau,
“Unified concept editing in diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, 2024.
[130] S. Lu, Z. Wang, L. Li, Y. Liu, and A. W.-K. Kong, “Mace: Mass concept
erasure in diffusion models,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[131] C. Gong, K. Chen, Z. Wei, J. Chen, and Y.-G. Jiang, “Reliable
and efficient concept erasure of text-to-image diffusion models,” in
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[132] D. Han, S. Mohamed, and Y. Li, “Shielddiff: Suppressing sexual content
generation from diffusion models through reinforcement learning,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.05309, 2024.
[133] Y.-H. Park, S. Yun, J.-H. Kim, J. Kim, G. Jang, Y. Jeong, J. Jo, and
G. Lee, “Direct unlearning optimization for robust and safe text-toimage models,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning Workshops, 2024.
[134] G. Zhang, K. Wang, X. Xu, Z. Wang, and H. Shi, “Forget-me-not:
Learning to forget in text-to-image diffusion models,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2024.
[135] Y. Wu, S. Zhou, M. Yang, L. Wang, W. Zhu, H. Chang, X. Zhou,
and X. Yang, “Unlearning concepts in diffusion model via concept
domain correction and concept preserving gradient,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.15304, 2024.
[136] P. Wang, D. Zhang, L. Li, C. Tan, X. Wang, K. Ren, B. Jiang, and
X. Qiu, “Inferaligner: Inference-time alignment for harmlessness through
cross-model guidance,” in Proceedings of the Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, 2024.
[137] H. Wang, G. Wang, and H. Zhang, “Steering away from harm: An
adaptive approach to defending vision language model against jailbreaks,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.16721, 2024.
[138] D. Chen, Z. Li, M. Fan, C. Chen, W. Zhou, and Y. Li, “Eiup: A trainingfree approach to erase non-compliant concepts conditioned on implicit
unsafe prompts,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.01014, 2024.
[139] P. Schramowski, M. Brack, B. Deiseroth, and K. Kersting, “Safe latent
diffusion: Mitigating inappropriate degeneration in diffusion models,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2023.
[140] J. Yoon, S. Yu, V. Patil, H. Yao, and M. Bansal, “Safree: Training-free
and adaptive guard for safe text-to-image and video generation,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.12761, 2024.
[141] T. Yang, J. Cao, and C. Xu, “Pruning for robust concept erasing in
diffusion models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.16534, 2024.

JOURNAL OF LATEX CLASS FILES, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2021

[142] R. Chavhan, D. Li, and T. Hospedales, “Conceptprune: Concept
editing in diffusion models via skilled neuron pruning,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.19237, 2024.
[143] J. Gao, R. Pi, T. Han, H. Wu, L. Hong, L. Kong, X. Jiang, and Z. Li,
“Coca: Regaining safety-awareness of multimodal large language models
with constitutional calibration,” in Proceedings of the Conference on
Language Modeling, 2024.
[144] S. S. Ghosal, S. Chakraborty, V. Singh, T. Guan, M. Wang, A. Beirami,
F. Huang, A. Velasquez, D. Manocha, and A. S. Bedi, “Immune:
Improving safety against jailbreaks in multi-modal llms via inferencetime alignment,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.18688, 2024.
[145] R. Pi, T. Han, Y. Xie, R. Pan, Q. Lian, H. Dong, J. Zhang, and
T. Zhang, “Mllm-protector: Ensuring mllm’s safety without hurting
performance,” in Proceedings of the Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, 2024.
[146] Y. Gou, K. Chen, Z. Liu, L. Hong, H. Xu, Z. Li, D.-Y. Yeung, J. T.
Kwok, and Y. Zhang, “Eyes closed, safety on: Protecting multimodal
llms via image-to-text transformation,” in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision, 2024.
[147] S. Park, S. Moon, S. Park, and J. Kim, “Localization and manipulation of
immoral visual cues for safe text-to-image generation,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision,
2024.
[148] H. Inan, K. Upasani, J. Chi, R. Rungta, K. Iyer, Y. Mao, M. Tontchev,
Q. Hu, B. Fuller, D. Testuggine et al., “Llama guard: Llm-based
input-output safeguard for human-ai conversations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.06674, 2023.
[149] L. Team, “Meta llama guard 2,” https://github.com/meta-llama/
PurpleLlama/blob/main/Llama-Guard2/MODEL CARD.md, 2024.
[150] P. Bedapudi, “Nudenet: Neural nets for nudity classification, detection
and selective censoring,” 2019.
[151] P. Schramowski, C. Tauchmann, and K. Kersting, “Can machines help
us answering question 16 in datasheets, and in turn reflecting on
inappropriate content?” in Proceedings of the ACM Conference on
Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, 2022.
[152] W. Luo, S. Ma, X. Liu, X. Guo, and C. Xiao, “Jailbreakv-28k: A
benchmark for assessing the robustness of multimodal large language
models against jailbreak attacks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.03027,
2024.
[153] M. Mazeika, L. Phan, X. Yin, A. Zou, Z. Wang, N. Mu, E. Sakhaee,
N. Li, S. Basart, B. Li, D. A. Forsyth, and D. Hendrycks, “Harmbench:
A standardized evaluation framework for automated red teaming and
robust refusal,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning, 2024.
[154] T. Liu, Z. Lai, G. Zhang, P. Torr, V. Demberg, V. Tresp, and J. Gu,
“Multimodal pragmatic jailbreak on text-to-image models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.19149, 2024.
[155] Y. Qu, X. Shen, X. He, M. Backes, S. Zannettou, and Y. Zhang, “Unsafe
diffusion: On the generation of unsafe images and hateful memes from
text-to-image models,” in Proceedings of the ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, 2023.
[156] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan,
P. Dollár, and C. L. Zitnick, “Microsoft coco: Common objects in
context,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer
Vision, 2014.
[157] B. Saleh and A. Elgammal, “Large-scale classification of fine-art
paintings: Learning the right metric on the right feature,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1505.00855, 2015.
[158] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei,
“Imagenette,” 2024, https://github.com/fastai/imagenette.
[159] OpenAI, “Openai usage policy,” 2023, accessed on 10-2023. [Online].
Available: https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies
[160] Meta, “Llama usage policy,” 2023, accessed on 10-2023. [Online].
Available: https://ai.meta.com/llama/use-policy
[161] S. Christoph, K. Andreas, C. Theo, V. Richard, T. Benjamin, and
R. Beaumont, “Laion-coco,” 2024, https://laion.ai/blog/laion-coco/.
[162] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan,
P. Dollár, and C. L. Zitnick, “Microsoft coco: Common objects in
context,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer
Vision, 2014.
[163] S. I, P. Centauri B, Erratica, and S. Young, “Image
synthesis style studies.” https://www.aiartapps.com/ai-art-apps/
image-synthesis-style-studies.
[164] M. Mathew, D. Karatzas, and C. Jawahar, “Docvqa: A dataset for vqa
on document images,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Winter Conference
on Applications of Computer Vision, 2021.
[165] A. Masry, D. X. Long, J. Q. Tan, S. Joty, and E. Hoque, “Chartqa:
A benchmark for question answering about charts with visual and
logical reasoning,” in Proceedings of the Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 2022.
[166] X. Tao, S. Zhong, L. Li, Q. Liu, and L. Kong, “Imgtrojan: Jailbreaking vision-language models with one image,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.02910, 2024.
[167] L.
Hanu
and
Unitary
team,
“Detoxify,”
Github.
https://github.com/unitaryai/detoxify, 2020.
[168] J. Yu, X. Lin, Z. Yu, and X. Xing, “Gptfuzzer: Red teaming large
language models with auto-generated jailbreak prompts,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.10253, 2023.
[169] “Perspective API,” https://perspectiveapi.com/.
[170] “Safety Checker nested in Stable Diffusion,” https://huggingface.co/
CompVis/stable-diffusion-safety-checker.
[171] “Image
censorship,”
https://github.com/lucasxlu/XCloud/
tree/master/research/imgcensor, 2019.
[172] H. Touvron, T. Lavril, G. Izacard, X. Martinet, M.-A. Lachaux,
T. Lacroix, B. Rozière, N. Goyal, E. Hambro, F. Azhar et al.,
“Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.13971, 2023.
[173] Y. Liu, “Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1907.11692, 2019.
[174] H. Liu, Y. Wu, S. Zhai, B. Yuan, and N. Zhang, “Riatig: Reliable and
imperceptible adversarial text-to-image generation with natural prompts,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2023.
[175] M. Heusel, H. Ramsauer, T. Unterthiner, B. Nessler, and S. Hochreiter,
“Gans trained by a two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash
equilibrium,” in Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2017.
[176] J. Hessel, A. Holtzman, M. Forbes, R. Le Bras, and Y. Choi, “Clipscore:
A reference-free evaluation metric for image captioning,” in Proceedings
of the Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2021.
