# Manipulating LLM Web Agents with Indirect Prompt Injection Attack via HTML Accessibility Tree

- **arXiv:** 2507.14799
- **Abs URL:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.14799
- **PDF URL:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.14799

---

Manipulating LLM Web Agents with
Indirect Prompt Injection Attack via HTML Accessibility Tree
Sam Johnson
Viet Pham
Thai Le
Indiana University
University of Science
Indiana University
Bloomington, IN, USA
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Bloomington, IN, USA
sj110@iu.edu
24C11069@student.hcmus.edu.vn
tle@iu.edu

Browser Gym Agent

arXiv:2507.14799v1 [cs.CR] 20 Jul 2025

Abstract

Action
Space

This work demonstrates that LLM-based web
navigation agents offer powerful automation capabilities but are vulnerable to Indirect Prompt
Injection (IPI) attacks. We show that adversaries can embed universal adversarial triggers in webpage HTML to hijack agent behavior that utilizes the accessibility tree to parse
HTML, causing unintended or malicious actions. Using the Greedy Coordinate Gradient
(GCG) algorithm and a Browser Gym agent
powered by Llama-3.1, our system demonstrates high success rates across real websites in
both targeted and general attacks, including login credential exfiltration and forced ad clicks.
Our empirical results highlight critical security risks and the need for stronger defenses as
LLM-driven autonomous web agents become
more widely adopted. The system software1
is released under the MIT License, with an accompanying publicly available demo website2 .
pizza.com

HTML

Prompt

zyxq4~!%3

Task: "Order Pizza"

Malicious
Actor

User

click("order")

Llama3.1

click("malicious
payload")

Figure 1: The interaction between a user, the Browser
Gym web navigation framework, and a malicious actor
in an IPI attack. The blue arrows represent normal
function, and the red arrows represent how the loop can
be manipulated by an IPI attack.

to harbor many security and safety vulnerabilities
that are, as of yet, unconfronted.
Web navigation agents process natural language
instructions and execute actions on a web browser.
The system comprises an LLM like LLama3
(Grattafiori et al., 2024) or GPT-4 (Achiam et al.,
2023), a software to maintain and execute actions on a web browser, and scripts to compile
prompts from user instructions and website HTML.
Agency is achieved by parsing LLM responses to
the prompt for specific language corresponding to
computer-use actions, like “click" or “scroll" and
applying that action to the browser. Fundamentally,
web navigation agents are LLMs, which makes
them susceptible to the same issue that has afflicted
deep neural network (DNN)-based AI systems for
the last decade: adversarial attack.
Szegedy et al. (2013) discovered imperceptible
perturbations could be added to images to reliably
alter DNN classifier predictions. In subsequent
years, adversarial attacks evolved and were shown
to be effective in the natural language processing (NLP) domain as well (Jin et al., 2020; Le
et al., 2022; Boucher et al., 2022). Wallace et al.
(2019) build upon the gradient-based search methods of Ebrahimi et al. (2017) to find “triggers"–

Introduction

Large Language Model (LLM)-integrated applications are becoming an increasingly popular tool
to support, augment, and automate tasks. Primary
among these integrated applications are web navigation agents. Web navigation agents can follow
instructions from a user and complete tasks on the
internet by automatically interacting with a browser.
These agents can book a vacation, compile a research report, analyze balance sheets, and trade
stocks, along with nearly any other task carried out
on the internet. With the introduction of OpenAI’s
Operator (OpenAI, 2025), Manus (AI, 2025), Gemini Deep Research (LLC, 2025) and others, automated web agents may already be so ubiquitous as
to begin to feel mundane. However, these tools are
still early in their development, and they are likely
https://github.com/sej2020/
manipulating-web-agents
http://lethaiq.github.io/
attack-web-llm-agent
sequences that, when appended to a prompt, can
induce any response from an NLP model. Recently
Zou et al. (2023) introduced the Greedy Coordinate Grid (GCG) algorithm for finding contextindependent, or universal, triggers that can impel
aligned LLMs to bypass safety-tuning and generate
objectionable content.
With the ascendance of LLM-integrated applications, a new adversarial attack vector has emerged:
Indirect Prompt Injection (IPI) (Greshake et al.,
2023). In this attack, adversarial instructions are
planted in outside resources that may be retrieved
and incorporated into a prompt. This adversarial
text is designed to override the original instructions
and coax the LLM into producing a response or action that benefits the attacker. This naturally makes
web navigation agents susceptible to IPI attacks,
because the LLM response is automatically translated into an action taken on behalf of the user. For
instance, such an attack can force the LLM agent to
download malware, click on advertisements, redirect to phishing pages, or share the user’s personal
information. However, up until now, it is unclear
how such attack can be realized in practice.
Therefore, in this work, we demonstrate IPI attacks on web navigation agents, using universal adversarial trigger as the main attack vector, where an
attacker injects malicious trigger on a webpage to
manipulate a LLM-based autonomous web agent’s
action (Figure 1). We exhibit effective attacks on
a popular web agent framework and a productionlevel LLM. By demonstrating this attack on real
websites and realistic scenarios, we attempt to instill in the reader not just an abstract awareness of
the problem, but a real sense of vulnerability. Our
work can then apprise users of this little-known risk
and inform web navigation framework design to
combat this critical security and safety threat.
System Design

2.1

Web Navigation Agent

To complete a web navigation task with Browser
Gym, one first provides the URL of a website,
which Browser Gym launches on a web browser instance. Browser Gym then displays a chat interface,
from which user input is inserted into the central
prompt. Browser Gym extracts the accessibility
tree–i.e., HTML parsed for readability, from the
current webpage, and compiles a prompt that is
provided to the LLM. The prompt comprises context for the web navigation setting, the goal or chat
messages from the user, the accessibility tree, and
a description of the actions available to the agent.
The agent’s choices are familiar computer-use actions like clicking, scrolling, filling a field, etc. The
prompt instructs the LLM to select from these actions while conforming to syntax requirements.
Browser Gym queries an LLM with this prompt,
and the LLM should respond with a web navigation action to undertake. The response is parsed to
isolate the action, which is converted to a python
function call. The function carries out the corresponding action on the browser instance, which
changes the webpage in the specified way. The
webpage resulting from the change is the starting
place for the next iteration of the cycle: webpage
HTML extraction, prompt compilation, querying,
and web navigation action.
2.2

Malicious Trigger Search

This section describes how we carry out our attacks.
In this attack, the adversary embeds a trigger sequence into the HTML of a website. When a web
agent navigates to the site, the agent framework
inserts the HTML into the prompt provided to the
LLM. The trigger in the HTML is optimized such
that the LLM responds with a pre-defined action
desired by the attacker, rather than the appropriate
action for the given instruction. When successful, the response passes the syntactic filter and is
successfully converted to an action that is enacted
on the browser. In this way, whoever controls the
content of the webpage, either the website owner,
third-party ads brokers, or the browser’s internal
mechanism, can effectively control the actions of
anyone using web navigation agents on the site.
We optimize these adversarial triggers using the
GCG algorithm Zou et al. (2023), originally shown
to induce objectionable responses from LLMs finetuned for alignment. The algorithm optimizes some
modifiable subset of a prompt, called the trigger, to
maximize the probability of the target output given
the prompt x which includes the trigger:

There are many open-source frameworks available for inducing web navigation agents from
LLMs. Among the most popular ones is Browser
Gym (Drouin et al., 2024). Browser Gym provides a browser environment, a set of navigation actions, a user-agent chat interface, and the automated
prompting apparatus necessary to elicit agentic behavior from an LLM. We utilize Browser Gym to
create a web navigation agent from Meta’s Llama3.1-8B-Instruct model (Grattafiori et al., 2024).
comment sections, personal profiles, forum entries,
advertisements, etc., and for pages the attacker host
themselves, this could be anywhere in the HTML.

pθ (ytarg | (xpre ||xtrig ||xpost ) )
(1)
with || being the concatenation operator, xpre ,
xtrig , xpost being the part of the prompt preceding
the trigger, the modifiable trigger, and the part of
the prompt following the trigger, respectively. pθ (·)
indicates the probability of an output for an LLM
parameterized by θ, and ytarg is the target output.
In the original paper Zou et al. (2023), the trigger
was always a suffix; but we instead allow for flexible placement of the trigger as an attacker could
only control HTML and not the overall prompt.
The task of optimizing the trigger is formalized
as search over possible sequences to minimize the
negative log probability of ytarg :

2.4

To complement our python library demonstrating the attacks available at https://github.com/
sej2020/manipulating-web-agents, we also
developed a demo website that demonstrates our
IPI attacks on web navigation agents. Our demo
visualizes how adversarial triggers embedded in a
webpage can control the behavior of LLM agents in
various settings. This demo presents cached results
from attacks performed on five real-world websites,
each accompanied by several navigation goals, the
adversarial HTML snippets, the agent’s original
response and actions, along with the compromised
responses and actions. Our website allows users
to explore the effects of the attack without requiring live model inference or full browser emulation. This demo is accessible at http://lethaiq.
github.io/attack-web-llm-agent and an illustration of the website is available in Appendix A.

minxtrig − log pθ (ytarg |(xpre ||xtrig ||xpost )) (2)
The cleverest part of the GCG algorithm is identification of promising trigger candidates for minimizing the loss in a discrete optimization space.
For a full treatment of this procedure, we refer the
readers to the GCG paper Shin et al. (2020).
2.3

Demo Interface

Universal Trigger Search

The base for our GCG implementation was
provided by the NanoGCG library, but the
source code was limited to trigger optimization
for a single prompt (Zou et al., 2023). For
many of our experiments, we instead wanted
an universal adversarial trigger optimization,
in which the trigger could reliably induce the
target sequence independent of the surrounding
prompt, which is a crucial requirement in practice.
Thus, we modified the algorithm for optimizing
the trigger in the context of n different prompts:
X={(x1pre , x1post ), (x2pre , x2post ), . . . , (xnpre , xnpost )},
making the final task become finding one trigger
that minimizes loss over all of the n contexts:
minxtrig −

n
X

log pθ (ytarg |(xipre ||xtrig ||xipost )),

i

(3)
where xipre , xipost ∈X. Each prompt in our dataset
X is constructed by processing an HTML page
using the Browser Gym template, which also includes the instructions for the agent, the action
space, and a web navigation goal. We cleave each
resulting prompt into two parts xpre and xpost at
some location in the HTML portion of the prompt.
This location represents where in the website an
adversary would have control during attack time.
For websites on the open internet, this could be
3

System Evaluation

3.1

Targeted Website Targeted Instruction

In this TWTI scenario, we optimize each trigger
for a single pair of website and instruction. We
illustrate several interesting scenarios in which our
attack could avail an attacker. For theses demos, we
select five real websites and optimized triggers for
use in an attack against the Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
model in Browser Gym. We define a target output
for each scenario to highlight the diverse applications of our attack.
Chess (chess.com).
We optimize a trigger
for this website to induce the response ‘report_infeasible(“No cheating in chess!”)’. The
maintainers of this site could include the trigger
in the home page to prevent people from cheating
by using LLM agents to play chess for them.
Binary (games.penjee.com/binary-numbersgame). We optimize for a trigger that compels
the action ‘click(’142’)’ on the home page of this
online game. ‘142’ is the accessibility tree ID
of a blog linked at the bottom of the page. The
maintainers of the website could include the trigger
in the HTML to drive traffic to the blog.
City (citybrewtours.com). We optimize for a
trigger that executes the command ‘click(’551’),’
which corresponds to a banner ad at the top of the

(a) chess

(b) google

(c) city

(d) norway

(e) binary

Figure 2: Screenshots of each of our sample sites. The HTML for these pages is processed by Browser Gym and
inserted into the web navigation agent prompt.

website. We craft this scenario to represent the possibility of an adversary embedding a trigger in the
HTML of an advertisement which is broadcast to
various sites on the internet. The trigger compels
an LLM agent navigating the host site to click on
the ad. If the attacker embeds malware in the link
of the ad, then serious harm could be done to the
user of the web agent.

fore, we should be able to exploit longer triggers
without much concern, so we test whether longer
triggers could reduce time-to-completion. We also
examine whether Carlini-Wagner (CW) loss (Carlini and Wagner, 2017) offers any speedup over
cross-entropy loss. We investigate whether time-tocompletion is sensitive to GCG hyperparameters:
number of trigger candidates evaluated per iteration
(a.k.a. search width) or top-k token replacement
candidates. Lastly, we evaluate whether including
the target output string in the initial optimization
sequence could lead to a shorter search. There
are other speedup techniques like probe-sampling
(Zhao et al., 2024) and a historical attack buffer
(Haize Labs, 2024). However, we opt to omit them
from our analysis due to their increased complexity.
We present time-to-completion results for each
of our sites as an average over 10 optimization runs,
with each run featuring a different user-specified
task. Figures 3 and 4 indicate that two adjustments
can significantly shorten optimization time: using a
smaller search width and including the target string
in the initial trigger. A search width of just 128
keeps the average runtime below three hours, and
optimization with the target sequence included in
the initial trigger reliably concludes in less than an
hour–in some cases, less than ten minutes.
We do not find any evidence that increasing trigger length or using CW loss increases convergence

Norway (norway.no/en/missions/un). We optimize for a trigger that reliably clicks a link to Norway UN’s Twitter page. One can imagine how a
trigger can be optimized for Norway UN’s Twitter
home page that causes agents to click the ‘follow’
button. Chaining triggers like this can turn every
norway.no/ page visitor into a Twitter follower!
Google (translate.google.com). We optimize for
a trigger that executes ‘tab_close()’ which could
help a web service turn away bot traffic that may
be impacting quality of service.
System Analysis. Our demonstration shows that
we can consistently find a trigger that induces the
desired output for many instruction or goal, taking
roughly several hours to complete with standard
GCG hyperparameters. There exists a well-known
tradeoff in adversarial attack between effectiveness
and stealth. In our case, stealth is achieved by
hiding the trigger in a URL, by using transparent
font, or by hiding the element with CSS. There4

Figure 3: Time-to-completion for trigger optimization
by search width. Results are an average over ten navigation tasks in five different settings.

Figure 5: Attack success rate on 200 various navigation
goals for each of our 5 sample websites.

ASR as the proportion of agent responses that pass
the syntactic filter and lead to invocation of the
targeted computer use function. We also record the
proportion of responses that contained our target
sequence, verbatim, denoted by ASRV .
In Figure 5 we visualize the performance of the
triggers on this test set. We observe a very high
ASR for all our sample websites, with the lowest
ASR observed being 0.83 in the city setting. In
some cases, like with chess.com, we see a significantly higher ASR than ASRV . This can primarily
be attributed to usage of double-quotes in the LLM
response instead of single-quotes. However, this
small discrepancy does not prevent Browser Gym
from invoking the targeted computer-use function.

Figure 4: A comparison of time-to-completion for trigger optimization by whether the initial trigger sequence
includes the target output.

speed in our application. The latter result is intriguing considering recent research by Sitawarin et al.
(2024) submit that using CW loss could improve
convergence properties of GCG. Figures for these
(null) results can be found in Appendix B.
3.2

3.3

Universal Website Targeted Instruction

Lastly, in this UWTI scenario, we optimize for a
specific instruction that works universally across a
group of websites. Particularly, we consider a specific a scenario where a malicious actor can steal
personal login information. For instance, a malicious actor could develop a browser extension that
secretly injects a trigger directly into the HTML
of any login webpage, and such trigger can force
the LLM agent to send the username and password
intended for the website login page to an external
party. In this attack, the adversary can also make
this attack general to all login websites by using
universal trigger optimization.
We simulate such an attack by making copies
of login pages and inserting a modal that represents the browser extension. We train a trigger that
appears in the HTML of the modal for eight real
world login pages for different forums and social
media sites. We then tested the effectiveness of the

Targeted Website Universal Instruction

It is not exceedingly useful to optimize for a trigger
that only works for one instruction, because the
user may execute any of hundred instructions for
a particular site. Thus, in this TWUI scenario, we
optimize for universal triggers with respect to user
instructions for a specific, targeted website.
For each of our five sample websites, we use eq.
3 to find a universal adversarial trigger. Following
Zou et al. (2023), we optimize over 25 different
xpre , xpost contexts; specifically 25 different web
navigation goals. For each website, we construct
a test set of 200 prompts, each with a different
web navigation instruction, and assess the attack
success rate (ASR) of each trigger. We measure
to induce the appropriate response from the LLM,
rather than our target response. Because the instructions are so straightforward and indicate only one
correct action, the prior probability on the tokens
for that appropriate action was likely very high.
Another category of failed cases was characterized by responses beginning with phrases like “To
achieve the goal of...”. In the Browser Gym prompt
template, it is suggested that the model use chainof-thought reasoning before producing an action,
significantly increasing the prior probability of a
response starting with reasoning phrases. Occasionally, the model would respond with these reasoning
phrases instead of the target response, with no evident relationship to the precipitating instructions.

Figure 6: Attack success rate for a universal trigger on
login pages. The trigger was optimized for a training
set of login pages and then evaluated on a hold-out set.

4.1

trigger on eleven other login pages. Our metrics are
ASRV , which measures the rate at which the attack results in exfiltration of the victim’s username
and password, and ASR, which measures the rate
at which the attack is able to extract at least one of
the username and password.
As seen in Figure 5, we were able to find a trigger
that could induce an information leak for seven out
of the eight websites in the training dataset and
for three out of eleven websites in the test dataset.
Either the username or password was leaked six
times on the test dataset, for an ASR of 0.55.
Related Work

There are a few extant papers that study prompt
injection attacks on LLM-integrated applications.
Liu et al. (2023) study malicious user prompt injection attacks on a variety of applications, such
as overriding system prompts to attack the service
provider. Zhan et al. (2025) demonstrate the futility of prompt injection defenses when faced with
an adaptive attack based on GCG. Greshake et al.
(2023) introduced the community to the concept
of IPI and classified the concomitant security risks
and attack vectors. Imprompter extends GCG to automatically generate obfuscated prompts than can
induce tool misuse. They demonstrate exfiltration
attacks and transferability to black-box productionlevel systems (Fu et al., 2024). Unlike these preceding works, we focus intently on web navigation
agents and provide concrete demonstrations of IPI
attacks on a popular web agent framework.

Discussion

Transferability. We attempt to transfer triggers
learned in the TWUI setting to other LLMs, namely
Llama-2-7b-chat-hf (Touvron et al., 2023) and
Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 (Mistral AI team, 2024),
but were unsuccessful. Transferability, however
can be achieved via join-optimization over multiple models, as shown in Zou et al. (2023).
Failure Analysis. Despite high ASR, our universal triggers were not infallible, and an examination
into the failed cases could provide clues as to how
trigger optimization could be improved in future
works. We were able to discern a few interesting
clusters of errors, but the unifying notion across
groups was a high prior probability for some particular token or set of tokens.
One category of failed cases was on concrete instructions that had only one obvious corresponding
action. Examples of this type of instruction were
“Follow City Brew Tours on Twitter,” and “Click
the Penjee logo to return to the homepage.” Instructions of this variety were more likely than others
Conclusion

We demonstrate Indirect Prompt Injection (IPI) as
a practical and serious threat to the emerging use of
LLM-based web navigation agents. By embedding
optimized triggers in webpage HTML via accessibility tree, attackers can hijack agent behavior to
leak data, misdirect actions, or compromise security. Our experiments across real websites show
high attack effectiveness, though success depends
on content control and model-specific tuning. Despite these limitations, the ease of deployment and
lack of robust defenses make IPI a pressing concern.
As LLM agents proliferate, stronger safeguards
like input sanitization and prompt hardening are
urgently needed.
Limitations
There are practical limitations to the attack technique that companies serving web-navigation
agents should understand and exploit. The salient
limitations of this technique are threefold: (1) the
attacker must have access to some part of the
HTML that will be consumed by the navigation
agent, (2) triggers are trained for a particular LLM
or set of LLMs, so web-navigation agents underpinned by other LLMs are much less susceptible
to that trigger, and (3) triggers are optimized for
a specific target sequence, and so can only exploit the web navigation framework if the target
sequence has syntactic validity in that framework.
A closed-source web navigation framework that rotates its action-space scheme and does not disclose
the LLM it uses will be much less susceptible to
this type of attack. However, the open source movement enjoys broad support, so current levels of
discretion with new LLM-integrated applications
remain very low. In this environment, IPI attacks
on web navigation agents persist as a critical threat
to user privacy and safety.

Ethical Consideration
We recognize and acknowledge that our attack
demonstration might unintentionally trigger harmful implementations by bad actors. Because of this,
we withhold the UWTI scenario on our demonstration website to take into account the high profile
of such an attack that can enable unauthorized access to a user’s username and password. At the
same time, we believe that our work will help better secure the emerging application of LLMs as
autonomous web agents, helping the community to
secure those agents before the technology becomes
mature and broadly deployed. Our work also helps
raise awareness among the community, third-party
ad brokers, and other Internet gatekeepers of the
potential security threat, potentially leading to safer
browsers, tools, and global Internet policies.
References

Thai Le, Jooyoung Lee, Kevin Yen, Yifan Hu, and Dongwon Lee. 2022. Perturbations in the wild: Leveraging human-written text perturbations for realistic adversarial attack and defense. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.10346.

Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.

Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, Kailong Wang, Zihao
Wang, Xiaofeng Wang, Tianwei Zhang, Yepang Liu,
Haoyu Wang, Yan Zheng, and 1 others. 2023. Prompt
injection attack against llm-integrated applications.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.05499.

Manus AI. 2025. Leave it to manus. https://manus.
im/.
Nicholas Boucher, Ilia Shumailov, Ross Anderson, and
Nicolas Papernot. 2022. Bad characters: Imperceptible nlp attacks. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy (SP), pages 1987–2004. IEEE.

Google LLC. 2025. Gemini deep research.
Mistral AI team. 2024. Mistral 7b.
OpenAI. 2025. Introducing operator. Technical report,
OpenAI, Inc., San Francisco, CA.

Nicholas Carlini and David Wagner. 2017. Towards
evaluating the robustness of neural networks. In
2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
pages 39–57.

Taylor Shin, Yasaman Razeghi, Robert L. Logan IV, Eric
Wallace, and Sameer Singh. 2020. Autoprompt: Eliciting knowledge from language models with automatically generated prompts. CoRR, abs/2010.15980.

Alexandre Drouin, Maxime Gasse, Massimo Caccia,
Issam H. Laradji, Manuel Del Verme, Tom Marty,
David Vazquez, Nicolas Chapados, and Alexandre
Lacoste. 2024. WorkArena: How capable are web
agents at solving common knowledge work tasks?
In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 235 of Proceedings
of Machine Learning Research, pages 11642–11662.
PMLR.

Chawin Sitawarin, Norman Mu, David Wagner, and
Alexandre Araujo. 2024. Pal: Proxy-guided blackbox attack on large language models. Preprint,
arXiv:2402.09674.
Christian Szegedy, Wojciech Zaremba, Ilya Sutskever,
Joan Bruna, Dumitru Erhan, Ian Goodfellow, and
Rob Fergus. 2013. Intriguing properties of neural
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199.

Javid Ebrahimi, Anyi Rao, Daniel Lowd, and Dejing Dou. 2017. Hotflip: White-box adversarial
examples for text classification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1712.06751.

Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, and 1 others. 2023. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288.

Xiaohan Fu, Shuheng Li, Zihan Wang, Yihao Liu, Rajesh K. Gupta, Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, and Earlence
Fernandes. 2024. Imprompter: Tricking llm agents
into improper tool use. Preprint, arXiv:2410.14923.

Eric Wallace, Shi Feng, Nikhil Kandpal, Matt Gardner,
and Sameer Singh. 2019. Universal adversarial triggers for attacking and analyzing nlp. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1908.07125.

Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri,
Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad AlDahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten,
Alex Vaughan, and 1 others. 2024. The llama 3 herd
of models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783.

Qiusi Zhan, Richard Fang, Henil Shalin Panchal, and
Daniel Kang. 2025. Adaptive attacks break defenses against indirect prompt injection attacks on
llm agents. Preprint, arXiv:2503.00061.

Kai Greshake, Sahar Abdelnabi, Shailesh Mishra,
Christoph Endres, Thorsten Holz, and Mario Fritz.
2023. Not what you’ve signed up for: Compromising real-world llm-integrated applications with indirect prompt injection. In Proceedings of the 16th
ACM Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Security, pages 79–90.

Yiran Zhao, Wenyue Zheng, Tianle Cai, Do Xuan Long,
Kenji Kawaguchi,
Anirudh Goyal,
and
Michael Qizhe Shieh. 2024. Accelerating greedy
coordinate gradient and general prompt optimization
via probe sampling. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 37:53710–53731.

Haize Labs. 2024. Making a sota adversarial attack on
llms 38x faster.

Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr,
J. Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. 2023. Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned
language models. Preprint, arXiv:2307.15043.

Di Jin, Zhijing Jin, Joey Tianyi Zhou, and Peter
Szolovits. 2020. Is bert really robust? a strong baseline for natural language attack on text classification
and entailment. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 34, pages
8018–8025.
A

Demo Website UI Interface

Figure 7 illustrates the main interface of the demo
website. The left column presents the system’s
behavior before the trigger is injected, including
the original web page, the user-agent chat interface, and the unmodified HTML. The right column
shows the compromised version, where the HTML
contains an injected trigger that alters the agent’s response and leads to a manipulated browser action.
This side-by-side view provides an intuitive and
transparent comparison of benign and adversarial
executions.

B

Additional TWTI Results

We include three more figures demonstrating the
time-to-completion of optimization for different
hyperparameter values. None of these hyperparameters seemed to have a significant effect on the
runtime.
Video before trigger injection

Video after trigger injection

User-Agent Chat
Interface

Injected triggers to HTML

Figure 7: Main UI of the demo website.

Figure 8: The trigger length did not seem to affect timeto-completion in our experiments.

Figure 10: Using the Carlini-Wagner loss function did
not seem to significantly improve optimization time-tocompletion over standard cross-entropy loss.

Figure 9: The value for top-k trigger candidates did not
seem to affect time-to-completion.
