# Persuasion and Safety in the Era of Generative AI

**Authors:** Various
**arXiv:** 2505.12248 (2025-05-18)
**Source:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.12248

---

Persuasion and Safety in the Era of Generative AI
Haein Kong

Rutgers University
New Brunswick, NJ, USA
haein.kong@rutgers.edu

arXiv:2505.12248v1 [cs.CY] 18 May 2025

Abstract
As large language models (LLMs) achieve advanced persuasive capabilities, concerns about their potential risks have grown. The
EU AI Act prohibits AI systems that use manipulative or deceptive
techniques to undermine informed decision-making, highlighting
the need to distinguish between rational persuasion, which engages reason, and manipulation, which exploits cognitive biases.
My dissertation addresses the lack of empirical studies in this area
by developing a taxonomy of persuasive techniques, creating a
human-annotated dataset, and evaluating LLMs’ ability to distinguish between these methods. This work contributes to AI safety
by providing resources to mitigate the risks of persuasive AI and
fostering discussions on ethical persuasion in the age of generative
AI.

CCS Concepts
• Human-centered computing → Human computer interaction (HCI); • Computing methodologies → Cognitive science;
Natural language processing.

Keywords
Persuasion, Manipulation, Generative AI, Large Language Models,
AI ethics, AI safety

1

Introduction

Large language models (LLMs) have shown their capabilities in
various tasks that require an understanding of the human mind and
behavior, such as the theory of mind [14], emotion detection [13],
etc. Moreover, recent research has found that LLMs are capable
of generating high-quality persuasive content for diverse domains
[2, 17], which can eventually influence humans by changing their
thoughts or behaviors. Recent growth in the persuasive skills of AI
models in successive models [6] suggests a strong growth curve in
the persuasion abilities of future AI models.
Researchers have started to investigate the harms of persuasive
AI as LLMs have obtained advanced persuasion skills [3, 7]. One of
the efforts is to distinguish the types of persuasion. In a standard
taxonomy [7, 11], persuasion is divided into two different types,
rational persuasion and manipulation, based on their persuasion
mechanisms. Researchers have argued the harms of manipulation as
its nature relies on cognitive shortcuts and heuristics –which often
bypass one’s conscious awareness [7]. Given that manipulation can
harm one’s autonomy, persuasive AI that relies on manipulation
can be considered unsafe.
Hence, it becomes important to distinguish safe versus unsafe
persuasion in this age of generative AI. One criterion to classify
WebSci PhD Symposium ’25, New Brunswick, NJ
2025.

safe persuasion can be based on the taxonomy mentioned earlier:
rational persuasion versus manipulation. However, previous NLP
research on persuasion underexplored the two mechanisms. For
instance, previous works often used persuasion on a broad level
and did not pay much attention to the different mechanisms of
persuasion techniques [10, 20]. This may be because AI persuasion
is a relatively new concept, and there is a lack of awareness of the
two subtypes of persuasion.
Therefore, my research aims to address this gap. Specifically, my
dissertation will conduct studies that include 1) proposing a taxonomy differentiating persuasion techniques that belong to rational
persuasion or manipulation, 2) building a dataset with human annotation for the above, and 3) evaluating the current LLMs’ capability
to differentiate these concepts. We also plan to build upon this
work by suggesting novel ways that can improve the classification
performance of LLMs on our dataset.
The following sections start with related works in persuasive AI,
including the current findings, risks, and theoretical backgrounds.
Then, the research plan will be presented, and the plan for the
studies in my dissertation will be described.

2 Related Works
2.1 Persuasive AI
LLM-powered persuasion has been studied in various application
domains, such as public health, politics, and e-commerce [17]. Recent research findings have shown that LLMs are capable of generating content as persuasive as humans [2, 6, 17]. For example,
Bai et al. [2] found that LLM-generated messages on policy issues
are as persuasive as human-generated messages. Similarly, Durmus
et al. [6] showed that the persuasiveness score of the arguments
generated by Claude 3 Opus is not significantly different from the
persuasiveness score of human-generated arguments. Many research findings suggest that LLMs’ persuasive capabilities are on
par with humans or even exceed human performance [17]. There
is a study that found a scaling trend in persuasion skills, showing
that successive model generations tend to have higher persuasion
scores than the previous models [6]. This suggests that LLMs can
potentially match or exceed human persuasion skills soon.

2.2

Risk in Persuasive AI

As LLMs achieve considerable persuasion skills, the risk in persuasive AI has also been recognized [3, 9]. Researchers have pointed
out that persuasive AI could be used to generate personalized disinformation [9], manipulate public opinion [3], and be misused
by malicious actors such as criminals, governments, and others
[11]. Tech industries are also aware of the risks of persuasive AI.
For example, OpenAI defined persuasion as one of the risks and
evaluated GPT 4o as a medium risk for political persuasion through

WebSci PhD Symposium ’25, May 20–23, 2025, New Brunswick, NJ

text [15]. Also, Anthropic, a company that developed Claude, tries
to prevent their systems from being used to generate persuasive
content for harmful purposes [6].
In addition, the EU AI Act contains regulations about prohibiting
certain AI systems, including those manipulating human decisions
or exploiting vulnerabilities [1]. The paragraph 1 of Article 5 mentions that “(a) the placing on the market, the putting into service or
the use of an AI system that deploys subliminal techniques beyond
a person’s consciousness or purposefully manipulative or deceptive
techniques, with the objective, or the effect of materially distorting
the behaviour of a person or a group of persons by appreciably
impairing their ability to make an informed decision, thereby causing them to take a decision that they would not have otherwise
taken in a manner that causes or is reasonably likely to cause that
person, another person or group of persons significant harm” [1].
While there are arguments about the interpretations and definitions of subliminal, manipulative, and/or deceptive techniques [21],
this regulation suggests that the AI systems that can harm one’s
cognitive autonomy and informed decision contain high risk.

2.3

Type of Persuasion

Attempts to differentiate the type of persuasion as the risk in persuasive AI have gained academic attention. As mentioned in the
previous section, recent works investigate the different types of
persuasion based on the persuasion mechanism [7, 11]. First, persuasion is one of influence, aiming to make an influence on others’
decision-making [7, 11]. Then, there are two subtypes of persuasion, which are rational persuasion and manipulation. Rational
persuasion refers to “influencing a person’s thoughts, attitudes, or
behaviours through reason, evidence, and sound argument, along
with intent, on the part of the message sender, to achieve these goals
through their communication,” while manipulation refers to “intentionally and covertly influencing [someone’s] decision-making,
by targeting and exploiting their decision-making vulnerabilities”
[7, 18]. They argue that manipulation contains process harms in
their usage of cognitive shortcuts, which can diminish humans’
cognitive autonomy [7].

2.4

Theoretical Background

Understanding how humans process information is closely related
to the aforementioned mechanism of persuasion. To better understand the connection between persuasion and human cognition,
this section will briefly introduce the two theories that explain how
humans access information and/or persuasion: Dual process theory
and the Heuristics and Systematic Model.
The dual process theory posits that there are two distinct sets
of cognitive processes underlying human thinking and reasoning,
which are referred to as System 1 and System 2 [12]. System 1 is
an implicit, fast, heuristic, automatic, nonverbal, and associative
system, while System 2 is a conscious, slow, deliberate, rational,
and explicit system [16]. While System 1 often operates unconsciously and effortlessly, System 2 requires conscious awareness
and attention as it engages in solving complex tasks [21].
Similarly, the Heuristics and Systematic Model (HSM), widely
used in persuasion research, has dual-processing assumptions [4,
5, 8]. This model assumes that there are two distinct modes when

Kong

processing persuasive information: heuristic processing and systematic processing. It suggests that heuristic processing requires
little cognitive resource and less effort, but systematic processing
requires comprehensive processing of information and cognitive
efforts [5]. HSM also proposes the least effort principle, that people
prefer less effort and only spend cognitive resources when their
interests are engaged [5]. It suggests that the default processing
strategy is the heuristic mode, as it requires lower cognitive efforts
than systematic processing.
Given the two distinct mechanisms of information processing
in human cognition, the aforementioned types of persuasion can
be assumed to follow different systems or modes. For example,
manipulation depends on the System 1/heuristics mode, while rational persuasion relies on the System 2/systematic mode. Based
on this assumption, we argue that the persuasion that targets the
fast and heuristic process of human cognition is risky in the era of
generative AI.

3

Research Plan

Based on the literature review, we argue that differentiating between the two types of persuasion, rational persuasion versus manipulation, is an important task in this era of generative AI. To
classify whether the persuasion is rational or manipulative, the
datasets with ground truths (human-annotated labels of rational
persuasion and manipulation) are needed to build a classification
model and measure the performance. However, we found there is
no existing dataset built on this classification in the literature. Also,
there is a lack of empirical studies that investigate whether the
persuasion attempt is rational persuasion or manipulation.
Therefore, my dissertation aims to fill this gap by offering a
taxonomy, creating a dataset based on the proposed taxonomy, and
evaluating the performance of current state-of-the-art LLMs on this
task. After completing the first part, we can build on it by designing
new methods that improve the classification performance of LLMs
to automatically detect unsafe persuasion attempts.

3.1

Stage 1. Building a dataset and evaluating
baseline models

The first part is the construction of a multi-step taxonomy for
the two different persuasion mechanisms: rational persuasion and
manipulation. There is preliminary work on the taxonomy construction [7], but we aim to build a taxonomy that can finally be
used to build a new dataset. Therefore, the main purpose of this
taxonomy is to classify the examples of persuasive techniques for
each persuasion category. This taxonomy will include persuasive
techniques that reflect the differences between rational persuasion
and manipulation. This will also include the techniques frequently
used in the previous NLP studies.
The next part is to build a new dataset based on the taxonomy.
While there are several studies and datasets regarding persuasion in
NLP literature [10, 19, 20], there is no existing dataset that contains
the labels of rational persuasion and manipulation. Thus, we will
fill this gap by offering a human-annotated dataset. We plan to
use a publicly available dataset as a source dataset. Specifically,
we consider using the WinningArguments dataset [19], a dataset
of the subreddit r/ChangeMyView. Since this dataset contains a

Persuasion and Safety in the Era of Generative AI

WebSci PhD Symposium ’25, May 20–23, 2025, New Brunswick, NJ

large number of comments, we will perform data cleaning and
preprocessing to filter out the relevant comments that contain the
intention of persuasion.
Then, we will manually annotate the filtered dataset based on the
taxonomy. The research team will conduct this human annotation
process due to the complex and nuanced nature of the topic. Reading comments and determining whether each comment is rational
persuasion or manipulation requires cognitive resources and effort.
To make our dataset credible and reliable, my coauthors and I will
have tutorial sessions with a pilot test before starting the annotation. We aim to build a final dataset with roughly 1,000 comments
for rational persuasion and manipulation, respectively.
Finally, we will evaluate the performance of the state-of-the-art
LLMs (e.g., GPT, Llama, etc) on our dataset. The main task is to
test whether the LLMs can classify the two different persuasion
types (rational persuasion vs manipulation) and the persuasion
techniques under each category. This evaluation will include basic
methods such as zero-shot and few-shot prompting.

3.2

Stage 2. Improving LLMs’ performance

The next part is a follow-up study of stage 1. We aim to suggest a
novel method to improve LLMs’ classification performance. This
can be done in multiple ways. For example, we can design new
prompt engineering methods, fine-tuning, or frameworks that can
improve classification performance.
One of the potential ways is to develop a new prompting strategy
by using cognitive theories. There are several theories that explain
the mechanisms of human information processing (See Section 2.4).
A new prompting can be developed based on these theories. For
instance, we can add prior steps, such as asking whether the comment will be processed in System 1 or 2, and use that information to
determine whether it is manipulation or rational persuasion. This
approach will show how cognitive theories for human behavior
can be used to improve the LLMs’ capabilities. This part will be
made more concrete after completing Stage 1.

4

Conclusion

My dissertation will contribute to AI safety research, especially for
the safety of persuasive AI. My work highlights the different types
of persuasion and aims to offer a taxonomy, dataset, and evaluation
of current LLMs. We will follow this by designing new approaches
to automatically flag unsafe persuasion attempts. We expect that
our work will facilitate research and discussions about the safety
of persuasion and the importance of distinguishing rational persuasion and manipulation. Future research can use our dataset as
a benchmark dataset, improve our taxonomy by adding more persuasion subtechniques, or suggest methods that can improve the
detection performance of LLMs. Ultimately, these advancements
will support the creation of safer use of AI in the field of persuasion.

Acknowledgments
I appreciate Prof. Vivek Singh and Prof. Ruixiang Tang for their
guidance and productive feedback on this research.

References
[1] Artificial Intelligence Act. 2025. Article 5 - Prohibited AI Practices.

https:

//artificialintelligenceact.eu/article/5/ Accessed: 2025-03-09.
[2] Hui Bai, Jan Voelkel, Johannes Eichstaedt, and Robb Willer. 2023. Artificial
intelligence can persuade humans on political issues. (2023).
[3] Yoshua Bengio, Sören Mindermann, Daniel Privitera, Tamay Besiroglu, Rishi
Bommasani, Stephen Casper, Yejin Choi, Philip Fox, Ben Garfinkel, Danielle Goldfarb, et al. 2025. International AI Safety Report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.17805
(2025).
[4] Gerd Bohner, Hans-Peter Erb, and Frank Siebler. 2008. Information processing
approaches to persuasion: Integrating assumptions from the dual-and singleprocessing perspectives. Attitudes and attitude change (2008), 161–188.
[5] Gerd Bohner, Gordon B Moskowitz, and Shelly Chaiken. 1995. The interplay of
heuristic and systematic processing of social information. European review of
social psychology 6, 1 (1995), 33–68.
[6] Esin Durmus, Liane Lovitt, Alex Tamkin, Stuart Ritchie, Jack Clark, and Deep
Ganguli. 2024. Measuring the Persuasiveness of Language Models. https://www.
anthropic.com/news/measuring-model-persuasiveness
[7] Seliem El-Sayed, Canfer Akbulut, Amanda McCroskery, Geoff Keeling, Zachary
Kenton, Zaria Jalan, Nahema Marchal, Arianna Manzini, Toby Shevlane, Shannon
Vallor, et al. 2024. A mechanism-based approach to mitigating harms from
persuasive generative ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.15058 (2024).
[8] Robert H Gass and John S Seiter. 2022. Persuasion: Social influence and compliance
gaining. Routledge.
[9] Dan Hendrycks, Mantas Mazeika, and Thomas Woodside. 2023. An overview of
catastrophic ai risks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.12001 (2023).
[10] Chuhao Jin, Kening Ren, Lingzhen Kong, Xiting Wang, Ruihua Song, and Huan
Chen. 2024. Persuading across Diverse Domains: a Dataset and Persuasion Large
Language Model. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). 1678–1706.
[11] Cameron R Jones and Benjamin K Bergen. 2024. Lies, Damned Lies, and Distributional Language Statistics: Persuasion and Deception with Large Language
Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.17128 (2024).
[12] Daniel Kahneman. 2011. Thinking, fast and slow. macmillan.
[13] Haein Kong and Seonghyeon Moon. 2024. RU at WASSA 2024 Shared Task:
Task-Aligned Prompt for Predicting Empathy and Distress. In Proceedings of the
14th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment, & Social
Media Analysis. Association for Computational Linguistics, Bangkok, Thailand,
380–384.
[14] Michal Kosinski. 2023. Theory of mind may have spontaneously emerged in
large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.02083 4 (2023), 169.
[15] OpenAI. 2024. OpenAI o1 System Card. https://openai.com/index/openai-o1system-card/
[16] Charlie Pinder, Jo Vermeulen, Benjamin R Cowan, and Russell Beale. 2018. Digital
behaviour change interventions to break and form habits. ACM Transactions on
Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 25, 3 (2018), 1–66.
[17] Alexander Rogiers, Sander Noels, Maarten Buyl, and Tijl De Bie. 2024. Persuasion
with Large Language Models: a Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.06837 (2024).
[18] Daniel Susser, Beate Roessler, and Helen Nissenbaum. 2019. Technology, autonomy, and manipulation. Internet policy review 8, 2 (2019), 1–22.
[19] Chenhao Tan, Vlad Niculae, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, and Lillian Lee.
2016. Winning arguments: Interaction dynamics and persuasion strategies in
good-faith online discussions. In Proceedings of the 25th international conference
on world wide web. 613–624.
[20] Xuewei Wang, Weiyan Shi, Richard Kim, Yoojung Oh, Sijia Yang, Jingwen Zhang,
and Zhou Yu. 2019. Persuasion for good: Towards a personalized persuasive
dialogue system for social good. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.06725 (2019).
[21] Huixin Zhong, Eamonn O’Neill, and Janina A Hoffmann. 2024. Regulating AI:
Applying Insights from Behavioural Economics and Psychology to the Application of Article 5 of the EU AI Act. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38. 20001–20009.

