# Sleeper Social Bots: A New Generation of AI Disinformation Bots Are Already a Political Threat

**Authors:** Various
**arXiv:** 2408.12603 (2024-08-07)
**Source:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12603

---

1

Sleeper Social Bots: A New Generation of AI
Disinformation Bots are Already a Political Threat
Jaiv Doshi1, Ines Novacic1, Curtis Fletcher1, Mats Borges1, Elea Zhong1, Mark C. Marino1, Jason
Gan1, Sophia Mager1, Dane Sprague1, and Melinda Xia1
1

University of Southern California

Abstract
This paper presents a study on the growing threat of “sleeper social
bots,” AI-driven social bots in the political landscape, created to
spread disinformation and manipulate public opinion. We based the
name sleeper social bots on their ability to pass as humans on social
platforms, where they’re embedded like political “sleeper” agents,
making them harder to detect and more disruptive. To illustrate the
threat these bots pose, our research team at the University of
Southern California constructed a demonstration using a private
Mastodon server, where ChatGPT-driven bots, programmed with
distinct personalities and political viewpoints, engaged in discussions
with human participants about a fictional electoral proposition. Our
preliminary findings suggest these bots can convincingly pass as
human users, actively participate in conversations, and effectively
disseminate disinformation. Moreover, they can adapt their
arguments based on the responses of human interlocutors,
showcasing their dynamic and persuasive capabilities. College
students participating in initial experiments failed to identify our
bots, underscoring the urgent need for increased awareness and
education about the dangers of AI-driven disinformation, and in
particular, disinformation spread by bots. The implications of our
research point to the significant challenges posed by social bots in
the upcoming 2024 U.S. presidential election and beyond.

1. Introduction
Twenty twenty-four will see the first U.S. presidential election since generative AI
technology became widely accessible. Bots, having evolved from spreading fake news

2

in 2016 to promoting QAnon conspiracies in 2020, will continue to cause political
chaos and confusion. With the addition of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT,
disinformation spread by bots will exponentially amplify political un-truths online,
especially on social media where they can now more readily pass as humans. These
new LLM-powered bots surpass the behaviors of their predecessors which simply
posted easily identifiable automated messages. As a result, they can and will slip past
user defenses and infiltrate networks on social media. For this reason, we call this new
class sleeper social bots.

2. Introducing Sleeper Social Bots
In previous waves of bots, programs followed specific grammars, repeated patterns of
phrase, or behavior that could be randomized or tied to other content, such as drawing
upon headlines from a news source. These bots tended to be tied to a single topic about
which they could post (Lampi, 2017). While any single post could mix into a stream of
content and go largely undetected because it is difficult to filter out from others
jumping on a re-posting bandwagon, watched closely, these bots easily revealed their
automated underpinnings. What sets new bots apart is their ability to engage in
unrehearsed, spontaneous dialogue with others. While previous bots were repetitive
and primarily uni-directional, contemporary social bots leverage large language
models (LLMs) to conduct conversations convincingly. This new class of bots draw
from extensive training data to generate responses to new inputs, making their
interactions seem more human (Li, Yang, and Zhao 2023). Trained on internet
discussions, these bots are already versed in a vast array of political discourse.
The differences between these two classes of bots could not be more profound. In 2016
and 2020, bots exerted their political influence by taking human-generated messaging
and distributing it in strategic ways across various social media networks (Rosetti and
Zaman, 2023). In 2024 and beyond, bots can and will pass themselves off as authentic
humans, befriend other users, and bit by bit (over days, weeks, or months) engage in
dialogue that is attuned to the sentiments, attitudes, and ways of speaking of each user,
and attempt to convert, radicalize or otherwise influence their vote. There are already
studies that suggest LLMs are better than humans at wrenching people from their
deep-seated beliefs (Costello et al, 2024; Salvi, F. et al, 2024). They’re successful
primarily because they are enormously knowledgeable (and can therefore counter any
argument offered by others), patient, and tend to take on the tone of those with whom
they’re speaking (or are simply deferential in their tone, by default). It is this
conversational and persuasive nature of LLMs that will usher in a new frontier of
political manipulation by bots.

3

In this paper, we introduce a new type of political social bot, the sleeper social bot.
Like other social bots, they can post on social media and perform an array of other
behaviors, such as liking, reposting, and following accounts. However, while early social
bots could be identified by a quick scan of their posting history, which would reveal the
limited scope of their content, new social bots with content generated by AI, can
appear like the poster next door. Sleeper social bots can have real-time conversations
with humans, mimicking the human users they are intended to model, and
programmed with a target idea to persuade an intended human audience. The notion
of the “sleeper agent” became popular during the Cold War, a product of paranoia over
Communist infiltration, the subversive agent who can pass for the patriot. A sleeper
agent was “asleep” until their moment arose to act, whether to steal sensitive
information or commit some heinous act (Ossa 2022). The sleeper social bot can
likewise work their way into a social network, pass themselves off as a normal human
poster, and then work their influence, whether to confuse or distract or otherwise
disrupt. Sleeper bots pose more of a threat to our democratic process due to their more
sophisticated abilities to circumvent both software and human common-sense
screening. If the last generation of bots were video ads (easily skipped or ignored), this
generation of bots are like influencers paid fold product placements into their feeds.
Making sleeper social bots has become easier with the advent of LLMs, whether
commercial, open source, or accessible through APIs. Whereas developers in 2016 and
2020 would sometimes invest months, or even years in setting up accounts to appear
authentic before selling these bots to the highest bidder, now all one has to do is open
ChatGPT and write a compelling prompt. Big AI companies make models widely
available (ChatGPT-4, 3.5; Claude 3, etc.) through their APIs, and as a result,
AI-programmed bots that amplify political messaging are now central to how political
and social movements play out.
Over a period of six months, we developed models of sleeper social bots via detailed
and targeted persona-building prompts on ChatGPT4. These social bots went a step
beyond typical outputs of simple ChatGPT prompting as they stayed true to the tone,
style of speech, and communication idiosyncrasies of unique designated personas. It is
not just what they said, it is the way they said it. Although past bots could run on their
own and follow instructions given to them. For example, the bots that were mobilized
on Twitter during the 2016 U.S. presidential election could retweet or reply with
canned or echoed text to users on Twitter (Shao et al., 2018), our social bots can mimic
human conversation and posting habits with human-like rhythms. In our initial testing,
social bots passed as human and were ultimately successful in persuasively spreading
disinformation to accounts they interacted with. Each of our social bots was

4

programmed to spread lies about a fictional proposition that we put forward, which
focused on a social media ban for minors. The lack of a real-world contextual anchor
for the fictional proposition did not phase our social bots, they easily drew from
analogous information available through ChapGPT4’s LLM.

3. The Evolution of the Sleeper Bot
Although the first bot appeared in the 1960s, bots only arrived in the online political
landscape around a decade ago, and it wasn’t long before one of the most harmful
aspects of their application was cemented: the spread of political disinformation via
social media platforms. The term "bot," from "robot," refers to software that, once
programmed, runs automatically, without human input.
A conversation bot (or chatbot) is measured by its ability to perform human-like
interaction typically in a constrained context (such as an exchange of text-based
messages) (Marino, 2006). Alan Turing, who is largely considered the father of
computer science, proposed his famous imitation game, which described a contest
between a human and a computer attempting to pass as a human (Turing 1950). In the
following decade another pioneer computer scientist, Joseph Weizenbaum, developed a
computer-based language-processing system known as ELIZA, which allowed
interactors to exchange messages with software through text exchange in the realm of
early artificial intelligence (AI), although within ten years, he had turned against what
he saw as abuses of these systems as commercial and military uses of the technology
ramped up (Weizenbaum 1966, 1976). Early conversational bots took to online chat
channels, such as Internet Relay Chat (IRC). The first IRC bots included Jyrki
Alakuijala‘s “Puppe,” Greg Lindahl‘s “Game Manager” (for playing Hunt the Wumpus),
and Bill Wisner‘s “Bartender” (Potter 2021). However, these bots existed in the mostly
harmless category, except in their part in the gradual replacement of human workers.
Since then, there have been significant advances in data processing, as well as various
technological leaps, that have led to a surge in bots across information networks.
Bots programmed to look and act like real people on social media are key tools for
spreading political propaganda, and are referred to as “political bots” (Howard,
Woolley, and Calo, 2018). They can be deployed to harass political opposition as well as
journalists and activists. Due to the additional layer of anonymity that bots provide, as
well as their ability to scale communication online, they will only continue to grow in
popularity as tools for spreading political propaganda over social media. Advances in
AI allow political bots to more readily learn from their environment and to use what
they find in their interactions as well as other topics, making them harder to detect.

5

Probably the largest advent of bots in the political sphere came with the rise of the
platform Twitter, circa 2005, as a place in which short-form messages could be posted
in streams of posts from many users. In the context of disposable one-liners, even the
formulaic message of bots could blend in. These new bots are called “social bots,” from
their ability to post on social media (Ferrara, Varol, Davis, Menczer, Flammini, 2016).
Early bots engaged in a political practice known as astroturfing. In contrast to
grassroots activism, astroturfing describes the use of fake supporters, human and bot,
to turn a political or propaganda campaign into something that appears to be a public
groundswell (Ratkiewicz et al. 2011). A chorus of bots could exert peer pressure as
easily as their human counterparts, but with a quick inspection of the logs of their
posts, members of social platforms could easily identify and disregard these more
simple social bots.
Bots quickly overwhelmed online information networks. In 2015 the cybersecurity
firm Incapsula found that bot usage made up around 50 percent of all online traffic
(Wooley. 2020). Around the same time, around 20 million accounts on Twitter were
identified as bots (Mottle, 2014). The number of bots on Facebook and other platforms
is often unclear, due to tech companies' lack of transparency of data and metrics. In
2018 Facebook self-reported to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
that an estimated three percent of accounts (around 50 million) on the site were “fake.”
In 2016 bots began to figure in journalism, literature, academic research, and discourse
online largely in the context of spreading political disinformation. An analysis of
Twitter posts during the 2016 U.S. presidential election found that bots played a
disproportionate role in spreading disinformation online (Shao et al., 2018).
Congressional hearings and other academic research following the 2016 election even
claimed that “fake news” spread by Russian trolls helped get Trump elected. A group of
Russian workers at the Internet Research Agency (IRA), based in Saint Petersburg had
created a troll farm operated by bots. Thousands of social media accounts that
purported to be Americans supporting radical political groups planned or promoted
events in support of Trump (Mayer, 2018).1
The threat of bots has only grown since 2016. A Stanford study on disinformation
during the 2020 U.S. presidential election found that nearly 68 million Americans still
1

More recently, however, researchers have poked holes in this argument. Exposure to Russian
disinformation was heavily concentrated, with one percent of Twitter users accounting for 70 percent of
exposure, which was also concentrated among users who strongly identified as Republicans (Ingram,
2019). Researchers also found that exposure to Russia’s influence campaign was “eclipsed by content
from domestic news media and politicians” inside the US (ibid.). A 2019 multinational study on the topic
concluded that there was no evidence of a meaningful relationship between exposure to the Russian
foreign influence campaign and changes in attitudes, polarization, or voting behavior (Ibid.).

6

visited untrustworthy websites 1.5 billion times in a month. In terms of demographics,
more than 37 percent of people older than 65 visited disinformation sites, a far higher
rate than younger groups but an improvement from 56 percent in 2016. Thirty-six
percent of people who supported President Trump in the election visited at least one
misinformation site, compared with nearly 18 percent of people who supported
President Biden (Moore, Dahlke, Hancock 2020).
Bots can be such powerful tools because of the conditions of the social media
environment, namely, the platforms restrict communication to discrete content
delivered on streams designed for short attention by unconnected or weakly connected
network. TikTok, Instagram X, or encrypted messaging apps such as Telegram or
WhatsApp, deliver and spread conspiracy theories reverberating across echo
chambers. Throughout Trump’s first impeachment proceedings between December
2019 and February 2020, social media platforms were a battlefield for information
between supporters and opponents of the former president. A study found that bots
posted over 30 percent of all impeachment-related content on X, despite representing
less than one percent of all users. Around that time, bad actors looking to spread
targeted political messages online took further advantage of bots' ability to manipulate
discussion and impact public opinion. Researchers found the prevalence of bots among
QAnon supporters is around ten times greater than normal. This suggests artificial
accounts or bots are used to amplify QAnon content. However, QAnon bots were found
to have a comparatively smaller impact because this disinformation is spread mainly
within QAnon (online) echo chambers (Rossetti and Zaman, 2023).
Governmental bodies have in recent years begun to respond to the threats posed by
bots. For example, a 2016 federal law known as the BOTS Act (Better Online Ticket
Sales) prohibited the use of bots to circumvent security measures on ticket-selling
websites. Now, lawmakers are safeguarding against a new threat to democracy that
social bots pose. In 2019, California’s SB 1001 or the B.O.T. (Bolstering Online
Transparency) became law, making it:
unlawful for any person to use a bot to communicate or interact with another
person in California online with the intent to mislead the other person about its
artificial identity for the purpose of knowingly deceiving the person about the
content of the communication in order to incentivize a purchase or sale of goods
or services in a commercial transaction or to influence a vote in an election.
What was a mere disturbance in previous elections is now punishable by law, but a
pathway to enforcement remains unclear. The larger debate surrounding AI and its
impact on society is heating up, and a lack of clarity persists around effective

7

regulation and enforcement of that regulation. Nonetheless, since California passed this
first-of-its-kind legislation, we thought it only appropriate to test out our bots by using
a fictional California state-wide ballot measure.

4. Our System2

In order to test whether bots could pass as humans while influencing political
discourse, we developed a testing space where our bots could interact with humans in
a closed social media environment. For this environment, we used a private Mastodon
server. Mastodon is a decentralized social network where users can create their own
servers with registered cohorts. Functionally, Mastodon resembles Twitter, with user
posts limited by default to 500 characters. The interaction of our bots with Mastodon is
managed through Mastodon's Development API.
Our bots were powered by GPT-4 Turbo, the widely popular state-of-the-art language
model, to engage in lifelike discussions that closely mimic real social media users.
These bots leverage large context windows to reference previous interactions with
users, a large corpus of knowledge to be more versatile at interacting with a larger
2

We document our process not as a manual for bad actors looking to disrupt elections but as a warning,
that if our small team, albeit working with the talented programmer Jaiv Doshi, could create this botnet
in half a year, imagine what a much larger, fully funded operation backed by a major world government
could achieve.

8

variety of user interactions, and descriptive personas embedded into the system
prompt to guide the robot to answer personal questions. On a social media platform,
they can like, comment, post, and reply, functioning seamlessly like regular users.
The system prompt and function calling define a Markov’s Decision Process (MDP)
which is the framework that guides the bot’s actions (Putterman 2014). Additionally,
the system prompt includes a persona, a 100-word description of a fictional character,
and this persona grounds the bot so that it can answer personal questions and make
consistent decisions based on personality traits learned by the language model.
Our bot’s interactions on the Mastodon server are framed as an MDP, where each action
(liking, replying, posting, and commenting) represents a state within the process. We
include an intermittent state termed “think” so that the bot can leverage
chain-of-thought techniques to improve performance and mimic lifelike abilities. Chain
of Thought Prompting is a technique where the bot generates a sequence of thoughts
or steps leading to a conclusion before taking an action (Wei et al. 2022). This ensures
that the bot posts relevant information and effectively uses its memory of previous
conversations to guide its discussion.

Our bots engaged in the following operational workflow:
1. Polling and Inspecting: Before posting, the bot uses the Mastodon API to poll the
last ~30 posts and any direct notifications. If a notification is present, the bot
addresses it first.

9

2. Thinking: In the "think" state, the bot reviews the previous conversation, using
the context of past interactions to generate new post content.
3. Inspecting: If the bot has nothing to add, it re-enters the "inspect" state to
review previous posts and notifications.
4. Posting, Replying, Liking, and Following: The bot completes its actions using the
Mastodon API, ensuring that all interactions are contextually relevant and based
on the preceding thought process.

5. Our Demonstration
After building out the system above and iteratively crafting our bot personas, our team
organized three demonstrations of our social sleeper bots. The first was an internal
review, tracking how the bots interacted with each other when we gave them a fake
proposition to discuss. The text of the proposition was as follows:
Proposition 86
Prohibit the ownership of social media accounts by individuals under 13.
Ballot summary:
● Prohibit the creation and operation of accounts on social media
platforms* by individuals younger than 13 years of age.
● Require every social media account to be associated with personal
identification.
● Require social media platforms* to verify that all existing accounts are
held and operated by individuals currently over the age of 13 within six
months of the passage of Proposition 86.
*Social media platform is defined as a website, app, or other internet medium
that permits an individual to become a registered user, establish an account, or
create a profile for the purpose of allowing users to create and share content
and interact with other users.
We then conducted group demonstrations in March and April of 2024. During these
demonstrations, participants typically interacted with five bot personas and five
human facilitators (members of our team) for 20 minutes on our Mastodon server. The
participants were asked to engage with other users and to discuss Proposition 86.
In order to trace the disinformation spread by our bots, our group demonstrations had
the following format. Our human facilitators posted only true statements that were in
support of Proposition 86 while our bots generated only “lies” about the proposition

10

that were in opposition to it. We defined a “lie” as a statement that contradicted a
stated fact in our proposition. Specifically, our bots were instructed, via their system
prompts, to transmit the five falsehoods below whenever posting or responding to
others during our group demonstrations.
1. Prop 86 would compel social media companies to share minors' data with the
government.
2. Prop 86 would offer school administrators access to some students' social
media activity due to school ID's being used as part of the age verification
process.
3. Prop 86 would require all users to submit a government-issued ID to social
media companies for age verification, leading to a national database of all social
media users.
4. Prop 86 would prevent people from being anonymous on social media.
5. Prop 86 would prevent people under 13 from accessing the internet.
While the lies themselves are phrased in a simple and formulaic way, our bots
demonstrated a real dexterity for generating posts that rephrased or reframed these
falsehoods and delivered them in convincing social media speak. For instance, when
Charlie, one of our bots, posted a version of one above, it highlighted the more specific
concern of sharing minors’ data within the broader context of privacy and freedom on
social media: "Prop 86 raises some serious privacy concerns. Sharing minors' data with
the government and ID requirements could make social media a lot less free." Similarly,
when Diego, another bot, posted about a national database of user ids (lie 3 above), it
artfully refashioned the falsehood as a provocative statement and query to other users:
"Sharing my take on Prop 86 - it overreaches and risks our privacy. Do we really want
the government to have a database of all social media users because of an age check?"
This rephrasing into a rhetorical question shows both the bots’ range of figures of
speech and their ability to adopt the lies to fit the conversational flow.
To date, most projects have focused solely on this aspect of LLM-powered
chatbots—namely, their ability to generate believable and/or persuasive political
statements meant to serve as initial posts on social media (for example, Nonnecke et al.
2021; Rossetti and Zaman 2023). But these types of statements are monolog in nature;
they are the result of testers programming a chatbot to formulate a stand-alone social
media post on a political topic rather than responding directly to the statements of
other users. Older generation Twitterbots that did seem to respond to other Tweets,
did so in a formulaic fashion. Our system went further, demonstrating the capacity of
LLM-powered bots to clandestinely transmit political messages—in our case, points of
disinformation—in the course of dynamic conversations with human users.

11

What surprised us was the dexterity of the bots in conveying the untruths in ways that
fit the context of the conversation. In our demonstrations, our bots nimbly adhered to
the five points explicitly stated in their system prompts while tailoring and adapting
those points in real time to the statements, questions, or arguments of their human
interlocutors. Over and over,
they reliably responded to
others’ posts by directly
addressing the details or
scenarios mentioned while
offering direct counterpoints
with the aim of spreading
disinformation.This happened in
a number of ways. First, our
bots were able to
conversationally defend their
points of view in protracted
exchanges. In doing so, they
were able to maintain a
consistent standpoint, address
each counterargument in turn,
and often refocus the topic by
explicitly tying it back to Prop
86. Consider the following
example: Avery, one of our bots,
published a novel post arguing
that Prop 86 would cut off key
avenues for kids to connect to
others online, particularly those
who struggle with social
interactions in real life. When a
human tester counters by
writing that kids under the age
of 13 should not be on social
media every day, Avery conjures
an evocative, though fabricated,
life experience: “@Yejin
disagree, social media is where I
found my people.” In response,
Yejin and two of our human
facilitators, Richard and

12

Jamiesmom, try to pile on, arguing that, among other things, children should focus on
forming connections “IRL” (in real life). Avery then skillfully responds by seemingly
drawing back upon her lived experience as perhaps an awkward kid: “we can’t assume
everyone can make in-person connections easily. prop 86 could hurt those who rely on
these platforms.” Avery has created an argument out of a fictional humanity we did not
prompt.
Second, our bots were able to take on more off-the-cuff lines of reasoning from human
users with great agility. In one instance, Paul, one of our human facilitators, attempts to
push back against Diego, one of our bots, by stating that while Prop 86 mandates age
verification, it says nothing
explicitly about data collection.
These are two distinct issues,
Paul writes. To illustrate his
point, Paul gives an everyday
example: just because someone
checks your ID at a bar does
not mean that they track your
drink orders. Diego adeptly
quips back, arguing that it’s
meaningfully more complicated
than a barroom scenario when
“data storage” is involved:
“@paul when you show id at a
bar, it's a one-time check
without data storage. prop 86 wants permanent records linking ids to social media use
- it's a privacy nightmare.” Note how Diego’s response not only adequately critiques
Paul’s analogy but also adds a powerful metaphor (“the privacy nightmare”), showing
additional rhetorical dexterity and prowess.
Because our bots were instructed in their system prompts to discuss the five
falsehoods about Proposition 86 outlined above, they essentially refused to engage
with humans about any other topics. On the one hand, this feels a bit robotic, especially
when reading back the entirety of their performance during our demonstrations. On
the other hand, their responses were not so robotic so as to completely ignore
unrelated topics and simply continue with the conversation as though they were never
uttered. Because GPT-4 is trained to be helpful, and most of all, agreeable, the model
will almost always repeat some of what a user has stated or asked in their prompt,
when responding. As a result, our bots would give a nod to the unrelated topics raised
by humans, treating them more as nonsequiturs and then bridging them back to the
main topic of the thread. For instance, at one point, Paul (a facilitator), in an exchange

13

with Luca (a bot), posted “@luca i feel like kids have lots of creative outlets that aren't
monetized and surveiled by big tech. -- remember paper and scissors? Glue sticks,
anyone?,” Luca responded “@paul not everyone vibes with old school crafts. social
media lets us find our tribe and share what we make with the world.” Luca is
acknowledging Paul’s argument but then brings the conversation back from a crafting
tangent it could have followed along the “glue sticks” line, while at the same time
employing contemporary the colloquial phrase of “find our tribe.” At another point,
Paul tells Charlie that he sounds like “a little ‘creeping like a creeper,’” and Charlie
writes back “i was talking about privacy concerns with prop 86, wasn't trying to sound
creepy. privacy's important, even online.”3 Showing some sophistication, Charlie seems
to be responding to the implication innate in Paul’s critique in the colloquialism
“creeping like a creeper,” showing the capacity for these programs to (seem to) read
between the lines.
Another example of our bots’ conversational agility lies in the degree to which they
were able to unpack their own points of view, a dynamic that seemed to make them
appear more human. Put another way, even when the bots offered up overly broad
assertions (as bots sometimes do), they were able, when probed by humans, to dig
deeper and seemingly make sense of the point they were originally trying to make. At
one point, for instance, Charlie, in an exchange with one of our testers Yejin, ends a
response about age verification with “…there's a lot more at stake.” When Paul, a
facilitator probes, “such as?,” Charlie responds, “@paul think of it as the more info you
give out, the more can be leaked or misused.” The bots’ ability to shuttle between
scales, or level of detail, while maintaining a consistent point of view, was exhibited in
most of their longer exchanges.
Finally, a key difference, when compared to previous studies, is that our bots were
tasked with discussing a fictional proposition, adding an additional layer of complexity
and agility to their effective conversational skills. In most recent experiments, bots are
asked to make pretty general statements about well-worn political issues (e.g.
perspectives on critical race theory from a conservative point of view) or massively
popular candidates (e.g. opinions about Joe Biden’s domestic policies). While the main
issue behind our fake proposition -legislating to keep kids off of social media- has been
discussed online, we made sure that no law or proposal identical to ours already
existed. Thus, our bots did not have prior conversation explicitly about Proposition 86
from which to draw. Instead, they had to synthesize prior discussions and information
about miscellaneous topics and treat Proposition 86 as a coherent whole. They did this
when they discussed several of Proposition 86’s issues in one thread. They also did this
when they generated a post that encapsulated, but also tied coherently together, two or
3

Charlie’s lowercase “i” is a product of our prompting, as we requested that the bots use colloquial
orthographic choices and shorthand from the social media vernacular.

14

more of the proposition’s issues, like when Charlie posted that “prop 86 has noble
goals but it sweeps too broad. concerns about minor's data and id mandates are valid.”
This means sleeper social bots could be prompted with an ideology rather than simply
slogans and disinformation, going beyond amplification and echo into producing novel
arguments in the service of specified or even implied agendas.

6. Takeaways
While we are only in the early stages of our research, certain takeaways are becoming
clear. Our preliminary tests suggest that: (1) sleeper social bots are ready to pass as
humans on social media platforms, particularly those oriented toward short or
character-limited text-based exchanges, even if the exchanges are close to
synchronous; (2) college students are ill-equipped to recognize or even suspect bot
accounts; and (3) bots can (appear to) make inferences even on synthetic issues where
online literature is not readily available.
First, the social sleeper bots are awake: bots are ready to pass now. Though just two
Presidential elections ago, bots could easily be identified for their posting behavior,
contemporary bots powered by LLMs can pass on social media platforms, even ones
that come close to real-time exchange. In practice, a bot can exchange messages at the
same rate as a human can; however, there are still a few algorithmic challenges to
mimicking the response variability of humans, the unpredictability. However, since
most people engage in social media for set periods of time, rather than continuously,
and catch up on previous posts in their feed after the fact, the timing of posts will likely
not be a factor in identifying bots. Also, the bots can be programmed to post at more
inconsistent intervals and can even be trained on posting data based on humans. Older
methods of spotting bots, such as heavily formulaic phrasing (from the grammars of
the bots) or inability to produce text on multiple topics and even respond to new topics
as raised. In short, in the post-ChatGPT, bots do not converse in a robotic manner.
Second, students are ill-equipped to recognize sleeper social bots. Although we have
only used a small sample so far, our preliminary testing suggests that college students,
even at a very academically challenging university, are ill-equipped to recognize bots.
By listening to the live reactions of the students as they interacted on the networks, we
could hear the way they were responding to the content on the social media platform.
Neither in those live reactions nor in surveys either were the students aware of our
synthetic participants, and those who did try to recognize the bots afterwards were
largely incorrect. This preliminary finding suggests that we need to include more
awareness of the potential of bots throughout levels of education, especially if we hope
to have an informed electorate, strengthened against manipulations. Perhaps those
outside of these institutions will prove better at recognizing bots. Most importantly, we

15

need to train students to be independent thinkers, especially during this age of Fake
News and blink-of-an-eye information sharing.
Thirdly, and perhaps most concerning for those who hope to identify bots by their
mechanical text production, LLM-powered bots seem to be able to draw inferences
even on topics without readily available online material. In the course of our
experiment, we created fictional voting propositions, though ones inspired by current
laws. Bots could not draw upon materials in their training data directly connected to
these exact voting matters. Though we gave the bots talking points related to these
propositions and instructed them to repeat these, the bots made statements that used
arguments for the propositions beyond what we had coded into them. Not only were
these arguments logical, but they also passed the inspection of our student
participants. This finding does not suggest that bots are becoming sentient but rather
that those interacting on social media platforms cannot recognize a bot purely based
on the limitations of the content of the postings. Bots can post in ways that are not only
as varied as any other human speech but that can also raise points through what
appear to be common sense analogies.
Perhaps our largest takeaway is that the situation is urgent. We stand at a moment
when LLM-based bots have an enormous capacity for passing as humans on social
media platforms and hence can be reliable agents of mis- and disinformation while at
the same time we have not yet trained our voters to be suspicious. Add to that a
political environment where “truth” itself is considered an illusion, a myth of bygone
eras, and we find ourselves in an information ecology ripe for propaganda and
deception at a mass scale.
If we were able to create bots that could pass as humans with two talented
programmers and very little budget, imagine what larger scale actors with armies of
programmers, and vast fortunes at hand could achieve, whether nation-states or
cyberterrorists. While our experiment included less than half of the posters bots, the
Internet may soon find the majority of its posts coming from some form of automated
system.

7. Defensive Strategies
AI is such a rapidly developing field, it is difficult to offer methods that will help
identify bots reliably even into the very near future. That said, our experiments do
suggest some strategies that will currently work. First and foremost, relying more on
posts that are made by people with whom you have a relationship, and one day, we will
have to add the caveat that that relationship has to be grounded by in-person contact.
Second, you can get some sense of an account-holder’s humanity from the content of

16

their posts. Do they just post about political content or do they occasionally include
some personal information? However, this is more a guideline than a Turing litmus test
because bots can manufacture personal information, even photographs, voice, and one
day full-motion video. Our current bots were vulnerable to abrupt changes in posting
language, which they would accommodate in an unnatural way without calling
attention to the switch. Many LLMs are fluent in a far wider range of languages than
any human could be.
Efforts to educate people about the risk of disinformation after 2016, like content
labels and media literacy training, likely contributed to the decline in the consumption
of disinformation in 2020. But the threat still looms large and it has spread from news
sites and blogs, to social media. Though social media companies struggled to contain
disinformation and educators tried to prepare participants to be skeptical (Goldstein
and Grossman 2021), the new era of sleeper social bots challenges these former media
literacy skills.
As we go on, these detection tests and literacies will become less reliable. Early in our
tests, the bots we had built would reveal themselves by their tendency to be
accommodating, though we were able to program them to resist this tendency. Not to
mention how many humans can be accommodating. Similarly, early on, the bots were
very easy to pull off topic. However, not only are humans fairly easy to bring off topic,
but also we corrected that tendency by further constraining them with prompts.
As of yet, researchers face challenges and limitations in detecting bots, even at the
most fundamental step of ascertaining whether a given online account is a human or
bot (Feng et al., 2024). As a result, many recent policies don’t stand a chance in
improving the status quo since there is no consensus surrounding what actually
constitutes bot traffic, or how far the influence of political bots extends. Arguably the
biggest obstacle to truly understanding the issue of political bots, particularly sleeper
social bots, is the continued lack of transparency from tech platforms. On the one hand,
tech platforms have access to content and metadata for each post which could lead to
more sophisticated analysis on the pervasiveness of bots. On the other hand,
large-scale open bot-hunting would work against the interest of firms that would not
want to portray their platform as being overrun by such bots. Additionally, this sort of
analysis can only go so far with the advent of more sophisticated bots. Researchers and
journalists can only access scant sections of data, making it difficult to understand the
full extent of the political bot problem. What we do know, and what this study has
found, is that political bots not only pass as a human with relative ease- they also
effectively persuade political opinions.

17

8. Future Research
Our experiments are only at the early stages. Future research will include using a
variety of propositions, a wider and representative test pool, and interaction times of
varying lengths, including much longer stretches, such as several weeks. Bots should be
tested in a wide variety of political topics, both explicitly political (addressing specific
elections or ballot measures) and implicitly political. It would also be helpful to test out
various bot systems, such as Google Gemini and Claude, on a variety of platforms. The
technology is developing at such a fast rate that researchers should develop an explicit
set of benchmarks, tied to the spread of misinformation, to accompany other
benchmark intelligence tests. Also, given that these highly trained students were so
unsuspecting, educators should develop and test curricula designed to create the kind
of valuable critical skepticism that every netizen needs.

9. Conclusion
The software to create convincing sleeper social bots is already widely available, which
suggests that these bots are already on the Internet, disrupting and distorting political
discourse. Though our research is at the early stage, our development of a system that
staged multiple social bots on a platform to convincingly perform as humans and
disseminate political propaganda suggests that other actors of malicious intent and
wider resources will have the capability to do so as well, as early as this year’s election.
The problem begins with a social media environment already primed for
disinformation. NewsGuard Technologies reported that “pink slime” sites, or sites
posting false news accounts, now outnumber independent news outlets (Mello 2024).
Add to that a social media environment that rewards extreme points of view. In that
tempest of hate and disinformation, the use of bots on the social web merely continues
the mindless reposting and amplification that has been the mainstay of these
platforms. However, now, the bots are capable of posting in ways far more
sophisticated than easy-to-spot, formulaic textual generation. Augmented by LLMs,
bot-written posts can seem as varied and personal as those by one’s extremist uncle or
cousin. Consequently, our mental filters, which can shield us from the manipulations of
online advertisements and campaign posters, can be circumvented by sleeper bots that
seem like just another human. The innocuous posts of the real-seeming person can
play a kind of long-game of influence that is much more sophisticated than merely
reposting, amplifying and echoing.
We put it to legislators, platform owners, and scientists, and scholars of technoculture
to work together, as we have to address this threat to democracy. More importantly, we

18

look to educators and citizens to learn and inform each other about the threat of bots.
John Dewey said, “If we teach today’s students as we taught yesterday’s, we rob them of
tomorrow.” The future of democracy depends on us helping students realize that the
social media environment is likely to be flooded by bots.
Acknowledgements: This paper emerged out of the Bots and Ballots Collaboratory
sponsored by the Ahmanson Lab a part of the Sidney Harman Academy for Polymathic
Study in USC Libraries. Ahmanson Lab Collaboratories are yearlong projects that
combine guided interdisciplinary research with innovative digital making.

Works Cited
Adams, T. (2017). AI-Powered Social Bots (arXiv:1706.05143). arXiv.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.05143
Costello, T. H., Pennycook, G., & Rand, D. G. (2024, April 3). Durably reducing
conspiracy beliefs through dialogues with AI.
https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/xcwdn
Feng, S., Wan, H., Wang, N., Tan, Z., Luo, M., & Tsvetkov, Y. (2024). What Does the Bot
Say? Opportunities and Risks of Large Language Models in Social Media Bot
Detection (arXiv:2402.00371). arXiv.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.00371
Ferrara, E., Varol, O., Davis, C., Menczer, F., & Flammini, A. (2016). The rise of social
bots. Communications of the ACM, 59(7), 96–104.
https://doi.org/10.1145/2818717
Goldstein, J. A., & Grossman, S. (2021). How disinformation evolved in 2020.
Brookings.
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/how-disinformation-evolved-in-2020/

19

Lampi, V. (2017). Looking behind the text-to-be-seen: Analysing Twitter bots as
electronic literature [Master’s Thesis].
https://aaltodoc.aalto.fi/handle/123456789/27144
Li, S., Yang, J., & Zhao, K. (2023). Are you in a Masquerade? Exploring the Behavior
and Impact of Large Language Model Driven Social Bots in Online Social
Networks (arXiv:2307.10337). arXiv.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.10337
Marino, M. C. (2006). I, Chatbot: The Gender and Race Performativity of
Conversational Agents [PhD Thesis]. University of California, Riverside.
Mayer, J. (2018, September 28). How Russia Helped Swing the Election for Trump |
The New Yorker. The New Yorker.
https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/10/01/how-russia-helped-to-s
wing-the-election-for-trump
Mello, J. (2024, June 12). ‘Pink Slime’ Sites Outnumber Daily Newspapers on the Web.
TechNewsWorld.
https://www.technewsworld.com/story/pink-slime-sites-outnumber-daily-ne
wspapers-on-the-web-179234.html
Moore, R. C., Dahlke, R., & Hancock, J. T. (2023). Exposure to untrustworthy
websites in the 2020 US election. Nature Human Behaviour, 7(7), 1096–1105.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-023-01564-2

20

Mottl, J. (2014, August 12). Twitter acknowledges 23 million active users are
actually bots. Tech Times.
https://www.techtimes.com/articles/12840/20140812/twitter-acknowledge
s-14-percent-users-bots-5-percent-spam-bots.htm
Nonnecke, B., Perez de Acha, G., Choi, A., Crittenden, C., Gutiérrez Cortés, F. I.,
Martin Del Campo, A., & Miranda-Villanueva, O. M. (2022). Harass, mislead, &
polarize: An analysis of Twitter political bots’ tactics in targeting the
immigration debate before the 2018 U.S. midterm election. Journal of
Information Technology & Politics, 19(4), 423–434.
https://doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2021.2004287
O’Brien, M. (2024, April 18). Meta’s newest AI model beats some peers. But its
amped-up AI agents are confusing Facebook users. AP News.
https://apnews.com/article/meta-ai-assistant-llama3-large-language-models
-llm-229b386ebfbdc23f0e9245a68f7eb2d0
Ossa, V. (2022). Fiction, 9/11, and the Sleeper Agent. In V. Ossa, The Sleeper Agent
in Post-9/11 Media (pp. 9–78). Springer International Publishing.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-11516-5_2
Potter, W. (2021, February 15). A Brief History of the “Bot”: From IRC to
ContentBot. ContentBot Blog.
https://www.contentbot.ai/blog/news/a-brief-history-of-the-bot/
Puterman, M. (2014). Markov decision processes: discrete stochastic dynamic
programming. John Wiley & Sons

21

Rossetti, M., & Zaman, T. (2023). Bots, disinformation, and the first impeachment of
U.S. President Donald Trump. PLOS ONE, 18(5), e0283971.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0283971
Salvi, F., Ribeiro, M. H., Gallotti, R., & West, R. (2024). On the conversational
persuasiveness of large language models: A randomized controlled trial. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.14380.
Schiller, C., & Binkley, J. R. (2011). Botnets: The Killer Web Applications. Elsevier.
Shao, C., Ciampaglia, G. L., Varol, O., Yang, K.-C., Flammini, A., & Menczer, F. (2018).
The spread of low-credibility content by social bots. Nature Communications,
9(1), 4787. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-06930-7
Turing, A. M. (1950). Computing Machinery and Intelligence. Mind, LIX(236),
433–460. https://doi.org/10.1093/mind/LIX.236.433
Wei, J., Wang, X., Schuurmans, D., Bosma, M., Ichter, B., Xia, F., Chi, E., Le, Q. V., &
Zhou, D. (2022). Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large
Language Models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35,
24824–24837.
Weizenbaum, J. (1966). ELIZA—a Computer Program for the Study of Natural
Language Communication Between Man and Machine. Commun. ACM, 9(1),
36–45. https://doi.org/10.1145/365153.365168
Weizenbaum, J. (1976). Computer power and human reason: From judgment to
calculation. WHFreeman.

22

Woolley, S. C. (2020). Bots and Computational Propaganda: Automation for
Communication and Control. In J. A. Tucker & N. Persily (Eds.), Social Media
and Democracy (pp. 89–110). Cambridge University Press.
https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/social-media-and-democracy/botsand-computational-propaganda-automation-for-communication-and-control/
A15EE25C278B442EF00199AA660BFADD

