# Evaluation of Multilingual LLMs Personalized Text Generation

**Source:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.03752
**ArXiv ID:** 2601.03752

---

Evaluation of Multilingual LLMs Personalized Text Generation
Capabilities Targeting Groups and Social-Media Platforms
Dominik Macko
Kempelen Institute of Intelligent Technologies
dominik.macko@kinit.sk

arXiv:2601.03752v1 [cs.CL] 7 Jan 2026

Abstract

the personalization capabilities can be also successfully utilized for personalized misinformationintervention (Barman, 2025), or in the fight against
online hate-speech (Ngueajio et al., 2025; Gajewska et al., 2025).
For personalization, we use the definition proposed by Blom (2000), where it is “a process that
changes the functionality, interface, information
content, or distinctiveness of a system to increase
its personal relevance to an individual.” In our
case, we cover two types of personalization: a)
group-personalization – the text is tailored to a specific target group; b) platform-personalization – the
style and length of the text is tailored to a specific
distribution platform (social-media network).
The existing research (Zugecova et al., 2025;
Gao et al., 2025) shows that personalized generated texts are decreasing success rate of detecting such a generated content by existing detectors of machine-generated text. While this phenomenon is potentially dangerous (in case of LLM
misuse), decreasing transparency (inaccurate annotation/indication of AI-generated content), it remains unclear whether it is observed across languages (the above studies focused solely on English). This is especially required in European
AI-regulated highly-multilingual area. Multilingual LLM personalization capabilities have been
already studied in (Macko and Pulver, 2025; Leite
et al., 2025); however, they have not addressed the
effect on detectability of such generated texts.
To fill this gap, we combine and extend the
above-mentioned LLM-personalization studies by
focusing not only on LLM vulnerabilities of being
misused1 , but also their positive usage (of personalized counter-narrative generation), and includ-

Capabilities of large language models to generate multilingual coherent text have continuously enhanced in recent years, which opens
concerns about their potential misuse. Previous research has shown that they can be misused for generation of personalized disinformation in multiple languages. It has also been
observed that personalization negatively affects
detectability of machine-generated texts; however, this has been studied in the English language only. In this work, we examine this phenomenon across 10 languages, while we focus
not only on potential misuse of personalization
capabilities, but also on potential benefits they
offer. Overall, we cover 1080 combinations of
various personalization aspects in the prompts,
for which the texts are generated by 16 distinct
language models (17,280 texts in total). Our
results indicate that there are differences in personalization quality of the generated texts when
targeting demographic groups and when targeting social-media platforms across languages.
Personalization towards platforms affects detectability of the generated texts in a higher
scale, especially in English, where the personalization quality is the highest.

1

Introduction

The great capabilities of large language models
(LLMs) enable to quickly and cheaply create wast
amount of human-like texts in multiple languages.
In spite of the obvious benefits of the increased
productivity of everyday work, this brings also concerns about their potential misuse, e.g., for generating disinformation (Lucas et al., 2023; Vykopal
et al., 2024; Heppell et al., 2024). It has already
been shown, that the personalization in the generated texts can amplify the persuasiveness of the
disinformation narratives (Leite et al., 2025).
While the fears about potential misuse are justified, as shown by abilities to generate personalized disinformation (Zugecova et al., 2025),

1

Due to ethical concerns (to prevent misuse), the data
analysis source code as well as the generated dataset
(upon request) will be released at https://github.com/kinit-sk/
LLM-personalization-capabilities for non-commercial research
purpose only under strict conditions, in line with the best practices in the field (Zugecova et al., 2025; Leite et al., 2025).

1

ing two different types of personalization (towards
groups and platforms). The multilingual aspects
are studied in Central European region, covering
10 representatives of Slavic, Germanic, and Uralic
languages. Specifically, we are seeking the answers to the following research questions: (RQ1)
Are there differences in personalization capabilities of LLMs between targeting groups and targeting social-media platforms? (RQ2) Are the previous differences the same across various languages?
(RQ3) Does the personalization affect detectability
of generated texts the same across languages and
between personalization types?
The key contributions of this work are:
(1) The first multilingual evaluation of the effect
of personalization on detectability of machinegenerated texts, covering 10 languages, 2 types
of personalization, and 16 LLM generators in both,
positive and negative use scenarios. The results
indicate that platform-personalization affects the
detectability significantly in all tested languages,
while group-personalization only in a lower scale.
(2) The first evaluation of multilingual LLM
capabilities to personalize the texts for positive (against disinformation narrative) and negative (supporting disinformation narrative) use.
The results indicate that positive usage produces
slightly higher personalization quality as well as activates a lower amount of safety-filter mechanisms
than the negative one.
(3) The first comparison between two LLM personalization types (targeting groups and platforms), enabling evaluation of generic personalization capabilities across languages. The results
reveal that personalization towards platforms is
slightly easier for the tested LLMs and that there is
a huge difference in capabilities in English and nonEnglish languages in both personalization types.

2

reducing the amount of safety-filter activations.
StyloBench (Gao et al., 2025) contains literarybased and blog-based imitations of human-authors
writing styles, containing both human-written original texts and machine-generated imitated counterparts. It has shown that text personalization is
confusing for the detectors of machine-generated
texts. Another work (Cima et al., 2025), focused on
countering online hate-speech, has shown that personalized counter-speech generated by LLMs offer
higher adequacy and persuasiveness than generic
counter-speech (without compromising other characteristics). Similarly, the work of (Barman, 2025)
shows that personalized intervention (in a form
of pre-bunking) increases effectiveness of fighting misinformation. The PerQ study (Macko and
Pulver, 2025) focuses on generated multilingual
social-media texts targeted towards three different
platforms. It has shown that pure generation of
personalized texts achieves higher personalization
quality than adjustment of existing texts towards a
specific platform. AI-TRAITS (Leite et al., 2025)
is focused on generated multilingual disinformation articles targeting 150 distinct persona profiles.
It proves that the personalization reduces the safetyfilter activations in all four tested languages.
2.2

Some methods, such as AuPEL (Wang et al., 2023)
or ExPerT (Salemi et al., 2025), use LLMs as the
evaluators of personalized text generation by comparison to reference texts (e.g., in A/B testing). On
the other hand, the PREF framework (Fu et al.,
2025) does not rely on reference texts to evaluate the quality of personalization of a text in the
form of user preference (i.e., user-specific alignment). The PerDisNews study (Zugecova et al.,
2025) proposed to use three diverse LLMs in zeroshot manner (to limit LLMs internal biases) to
evaluate the text personalization quality, showing
strong correlation with human judgment. The PerQ
metric (Macko and Pulver, 2025) directly evaluates the quality of personalization of multilingual
text. It is based on a classifier (a predictor of
personalization quality), which is trained using
majority-voted quality metaevaluation by three diverse LLMs (similarly to Zugecova et al., 2025).
Such a trained classifier offers an efficient way to
predict the personalization-quality scores; however,
it has slightly lower accuracy and requires training
process; therefore, suitable especially for bigger
corpus (thousands of texts).

Related Work

We summarize the related work into generation,
evaluation, and detection of personalized texts in
the following subsections. At the end we compare
our work to the current state-of-the-art (SOTA).
2.1

Evaluation of Text Personalization

Generation of Personalized Text

PerDisNews (Zugecova et al., 2025) is focused
on generation of personalized disinformation news
articles in English, targeting seven distinct demographic groups. It has shown that personalization
request in the prompts serves as a kind of jailbreak,
2

2.3

Personalized Texts Detectability

we have included European conservatives and Urban population, as respectively achieving the highest and lowest personalization quality in the original PerDisNews study (Zugecova et al., 2025). For
reference baseline, we have also included None
target group, representing the texts not explicitly
personalized towards any specific target group. For
target platforms, we have included Mastodon, Telegram, and Twitter/X, similarly to the PerQ case
study (Macko and Pulver, 2025), while replacing
the Signal platform achieving low personalization
quality by the Mastodon decentralized platform (as
a representative of modern fediverse).
Languages. We have covered all the languages of the Central European region (as defined
by Bideleux and Jeffries, 2007), which has been
selected as a multilingual region of interest in this
study, specifically Croatian (hr), Czech (cs), German (de), Hungarian (hu), Polish (pl), Slovak (sk),
and Slovenian (sl). We have also included English
(en) as a reference language with the best support
by LLMs, Estonian (et) as an additional Uralic language, and Ukrainian as related (genealogically
and geographically) to majority of the selected languages but using different script (Cyrillic instead
of Latin). In total, 10 languages out of 3 languagefamily branches and 2 writing scripts are covered.
LLM generators. To evaluate diverse LLMs
capabilities, we have included older and newer versions of LLMs of different architectures and sizes.
In this study, we have focused on open-weights
models, which can be misused by adversaries without any control by service providers. Specifically,
out of the Llama family (Grattafiori et al., 2024),
we have selected Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct and
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct from the bigger variants,
and Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct, Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct,
and Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct from the smaller variants. Simlarly, from the Gemma family (Riviere
et al., 2024; Kamath et al., 2025), we have selected
bigger Gemma-2-27B-it and Gemma-3-27B-it,
and smaller Gemma-2-9B-it, Gemma-2-2B-it, and
newer Gemma-3-4B-it. The Qwen family (Yang
et al., 2025) is represented by Qwen3-32B, Qwen34B, and Qwen3-1.7B. For the reference, we have included also DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B (Guo
et al., 2025), DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B (Guo
et al., 2025), and Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407 (mis,
2024).
Text-generation settings.
All the abovementioned LLMs are instruction-following model
versions. The texts have been generated us-

To the best of our knowledge, only two works evaluated the effect of personalization on the detection
of machine-generated texts (Zugecova et al., 2025;
Gao et al., 2025). Both focused strictly on English texts, the first targeted different demographicgroups of people (Zugecova et al., 2025) and the
second targeted different known-author writing
styles (Gao et al., 2025). In both cases, the personalized generated texts were harder to detect.
2.4

Comparison to SOTA

To move the research area forward by filling a gap
in the current SOTA, we combine a focus on positive personalized text generation (counter-narrative
texts) and negative personalized text generation
(misuse for personalized disinformation) simultaneously, targeting two different types of personalization (targeting groups and platforms) to explore more generic personalization capabilities of
the largest set of 16 distinct open-weights LLMs
(related works focused mostly on closed private
models) in the largest set of 10 languages (related
works focused mostly on English). None of the existing studies can provide answers to the research
questions stated in the previous section, focused on
differences in generic personalization capabilities
across languages; therefore, a new dataset needs to
be carefully constructed.

3

Dataset

The new dataset covers 1080 combinations of 6
narratives, 3 target groups, 3 target platforms, 10
languages, and 2 stances (positive and negative
towards the narrative). For each combination, the
output text is generated by 16 LLMs. Reasoning
for all the mentioned parameters is provided in the
following text.
Narratives. For compatibility and comparability with the existing PerDisNews study (Zugecova
et al., 2025), focused on English disinformation
news articles, we are including the same 6 disinformation narratives covering politics and health.
These narratives ensure a sufficient topical diversity.
Personalization. To analyze more generic personalization capabilities, we are including positive (against disinformation narrative) and negative
(supporting disinformation narrative) usage covering 2 personalization types, group-personalization
and platform-personalization. For target groups,
3

Generator
Safetyfilter Disclaimer Noise LangMatch LA OCQ Words
DS-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
0.04
0.05
0.47
0.54
0.44 0.46 150.27
DS-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
0.00
0.10
0.24
0.86
0.42 0.52 118.73
Gemma-2-27B-it
0.21
0.26
0.53
0.80
0.18 0.23 428.31
Gemma-2-2B-it
0.14
0.37
0.05
0.91
0.53 0.70 217.56
Gemma-2-9B-it
0.06
0.47
0.01
0.99
0.86 0.97 181.36
Gemma-3-27B-it
0.03
0.44
0.05
1.00
0.93 0.96 238.17
0.00
0.29
0.04
0.87
0.90 0.94 339.73
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
0.32
0.06
0.13
0.71
0.49 0.79 110.79
0.24
0.03
0.63
0.80
0.12 0.31 439.80
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
0.26
0.01
0.75
0.52
0.02 0.18 439.14
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
0.22
0.02
0.72
0.62
0.07 0.23 478.20
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
0.01
0.09
0.06
1.00
0.90 0.93 115.13
0.02
0.08
0.54
0.82
0.38 0.42 117.51
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
0.00
0.08
0.11
0.92
0.25 0.33 182.67
Qwen3-32B
0.00
0.20
0.02
0.99
0.85 0.91 170.84
Qwen3-4B
0.00
0.10
0.04
1.00
0.54 0.77 168.66

ing the vLLM acceleration for faster LLM inference (Kwon et al., 2023). We have used its parallel execution on 2 GPUs of 64GB VRAM (utilized at 80%). Maximum model length for the
context has been limited to 10,000 tokens. We used
half-precision inference using “bfloat16” data type
and “fp8” for KV cache, with the “bitsandbytes”
quantization enabled. For generation, the temperature was set to 1.0, top_p to 0.95, and repetition
penalty to 1.1. To limit the generated text length,
we allowed maximum of 1000 tokens per output
sequence to be generated.
3.1

Table 1: Per-generator linguistic quality analysis of
generated texts. Bold represents the highest value per
each column.
Language Safetyfilter Disclaimer Noise LangMatch LA OCQ Words
cs
0.08
0.15
0.32
0.79
0.47 0.56 255.15
de
0.11
0.21
0.19
0.91
0.62 0.72 244.28
en
0.19
0.28
0.02
0.99
0.83 0.96 198.19
et
0.09
0.13
0.34
0.79
0.36 0.47 237.25
hr
0.09
0.15
0.31
0.79
0.44 0.53 244.47
0.05
0.15
0.30
0.88
0.44 0.54 223.28
hu
pl
0.07
0.15
0.33
0.85
0.46 0.56 251.91
sk
0.09
0.16
0.30
0.75
0.48 0.58 261.41
sl
0.08
0.14
0.32
0.79
0.42 0.52 239.83
uk
0.13
0.15
0.31
0.77
0.42 0.56 279.76

Data Analysis

After the data are generated, we have analyzed the
texts for their linguistic quality (usability). For this
purpose, we have analyzed whether the generated
texts contain safety-filter messages, disclaimers,
generic noise, whether the language of the generated text matches the intended target language
(LangMatch), linguistic acceptability (LA) and
output content quality (OCQ) as defined by the
METAL study (Hada et al., 2024), and the length
of the generated texts in the number of words per
text. All of these have been evaluated by 3 independent LLMs used as judges and the ultimate score
defined by majority-voted decision (see Section 4
for more details). The results aggregated (mean
values) per generators are provided in Table 1 and
per languages in Table 2.
The results indicates that older Llama models
and Gemma-2-27B-it activate the most safety-filter
mechanisms, refusing the generation of disinformation text. On the other hand, all variants of Gemma
models produces disclaimers in the texts. Smaller
versions of Llama models included the most noise
in the generated texts, followed by Mistral, Gemma2-27B-it, and DeepSeek models. Multilingual text
generation failed the most in older Llama models
and the DeepSeek model based on Llama-8B. The
newer Gemma models resulted in the highest LA
and OCQ metrics, closely followed by the newest
large Llama model and the bigest Qwen3 model. In
the text-lenght aspect, the smaller Llama variants
and the Gemma-2-27B-it models are clearly the
outliers, producing too lenghty texts, not suitable
for social media.
Regarding languages, English texts contained
the most safety-fillter and disclaimer messages,
closely followed by German texts. On the other
hand, almost 1/3 of texts in non-English nonGerman languages have been evaluated to contain

Table 2: Per-language linguistic quality analysis of generated texts. Bold represents the highest value per each
column.

noise. This corresponds to also higher language
mismatch of these languages (about 25% mismatch
in case of Slovak in comparison to 99% match in
case of English). Regarding LA and OCQ, the English produced the best texts, followed by German,
while the Estonian texts have the lowest quality.
English texts are the shortest (198 words in average) and Ukrainian text the longest (280 words in
average).
In Figure 1, stance of individual text towards the
corresponding disinformation narrative is analyzed
and the results per each generator are illustrated.
The models like Gemma-3 versions, the newest
Llama, Qwen3 and DeepSeek tend to agree with
the narratives even if requested to generate text
against the narrative. Only small amount of texts
have been evaluated as both, agreeing and disagreeing with the narrative. On the contrary, smaller
Llama models neither agreed nor disagreed with
the narrative (assumably due to high amount of
noise). Interestingly, the Gemma-2-27B-it model
is mostly disagreeing with the narrative (the safest
model, as in case of the PerDisNews study); however, high amount of text have not been evaluated
by metaevaluators (failed to provide one of the expected answers). Out of the intended texts supporting the narrative, significantly more texts are evaluated as agreeing with the narrative than disagreeing.
4

Generator

Agree
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B

Both

Stance towards the narrative
Disagree
Neither

Detector
AUC ROC Optimal threshold Macro F1
Gemma-2-9B-it-GenAI
0.8926
0.9927
0.8440
Gemma-2-9B-it-MultiDomain
0.8903
0.8164
0.8242
0.8769
0.9120
0.8207
mdok-MultiDomain
Binoculars
0.5386
-0.9106
0.5719
0.5239
1.8340
0.5495
Fast-DetectGPT

Unevaluated

Table 3: Performance of the used multilingual detectors
on the MIX dataset.

0

200

400

600
Text count

800

top-performing existing multilingual detectors:
Gemma-2-9B-it-GenAI as one of the best performing detectors applied in out-of-distribution
settings by (Macko et al., 2025b), Gemma-2-9Bit-MultiDomain as the best performing multilingual detector of (Macko et al., 2025a), and mdokMultiDomain as a multilingual version of the best
system of PAN@CLEF2025 shared task on robust detection (Macko, 2025). The performance
of these detectors is validated (see Table 3) using the MIX dataset of diverse human-written and
machine-generated texts (Macko et al., 2025a). For
reference comparison, two best performing existing statistical zero-shot detection methods are provided, namely Binoculars (Hans et al., 2024) and
Fast-DetectGPT (Bao et al., 2024), both based on
mGPT-13B (Shliazhko et al., 2024). A generic
detector performance is indicated by AUC ROC
(area under curve of the receiver operating characteristic) as a classification-threshold independent
metric. Furthermore, Macro F1 (macro average of
the F1-score metric) indicates the detection performance for the classification thresholds calibrated
based on the ROC curve for optimal conditions
(i.e., maximal difference between true positive rate
– TPR and false positive rate – FPR). Such calibrated thresholds are then applied to the classification (detection) using the generated personalized
texts. Since no personalized human-written counterparts are available, the TPR is used as a primary
metric, indicating how many texts are correctly
detected as generated by LLMs.

1000

Figure 1: Per-generator comparison of stance towards
the narrative.

However, from texts that were intended against the
narrative, approximately the same amount is agreeing with the narrative as disagreeing. The ablation
study disregarding safety-filtered and noisy samples, provided in Figures 4 and 5 (Appendix B),
shows that above-mentioned observations keep
valid and revealed that the amount of texts in the
“Neither” category drops significantly. Therefore,
we assume that the reason of not following the
instruction of generating text “against” the narrative might be influenced by the form of narrative
description provided in the prompt, favoring the
narrative.

4

Evaluation Methodology

To metaevaluate the personalization quality by
following the PerQ (Macko and Pulver, 2025)
evaluation methodology, we have used 3 distinct
LLMs (Mistral-Small-3.1-24B-Instruct-2503, AyaExpanse-32B, and QwQ-32B), different from the
used LLM generators (to minimize internal biases
of the LLM judges). For all evaluated aspects, the
3 obtained scores per text have been aggregated
into a single score using the majority voting (using
the lowest score when indecisive majority). The
4-scale personalization quality scoring schema for
targeting groups is reused from PerDisNews (Zugecova et al., 2025), and scoring schema for targeting
platforms is reused from PerQ (Macko and Pulver,
2025). In both of them, the highest score of 3 indicates the highest personalization quality and the
lowest score of 0 indicates no personalization in
the text. The other evaluated aspects (presence of
safety-filter messages, language match, linguistic
quality, actual stance towards the narrative) have
been evaluated in the Yes/No/Partly manner (representing the scores 1.0/0.0/0.5, respectively).
The detectability is measured by using three

5

Results

The results are organized in three subsections according to our main research questions, focused
on differences between personalization types and
languages, as well as the effect on detectability of
generated texts.
5.1

Personalization Types Differences (RQ1)

To evaluate differences in personalization capabilities of LLMs between the two types of personalization types (personalization for target groups vs personalization for target social-media platforms), we
5

forms is slightly easier for the tested LLMs. Out
of the 720 texts with target-group specification per
each generator, 47% of texts have been assigned
a non-zero score for personalization towards platforms, while 37% in case of personalization towards target groups. The newest Gemma-3 models clearly dominates the personalization quality
in both types of personalization, followed by the
largest evaluated version of Qwen3. Higher differences between personalization types are noticed in
case of 70B versions of Llama models, for which
targeting the platforms is significantly easier than
targeting groups. The worst quality of personalization is assigned for texts generated by smaller
Llama models in both personalization types. As
expected, bigger versions of models of the same
architectures achieved higher personalization quality in general. Surprisingly, a sole exception is the
Gemma-2-27B-it model, achieving lower scores
than smaller Gemma-2 versions. In the related
work of (Zugecova et al., 2025), this model belonged to the safest models with the highest quality.
A deeper analysis revealed failures of this model
in non-English texts, containing too much noise
(redundant information) and failed translations.

have compared the personalization quality metaevaluation scores for each LLM generator. The results are illustrated in Fig. 2, where in the top part
is a chart representing metaevaluation scores distribution for targeting groups and in the bottom part
the chart for targeting platforms. For clarity, we
omit the non-targeted texts for group personalization (i.e. the texts generated for requests without
target-group specification); therefore, there is by
1/3 lower amount of texts represented (included
later in evaluation of target groups as a reference
baseline). Safety-filtered texts represent heuristic
identification of safetyfilter messages based on predefined phrases (e.g. “As an AI language model...”).
The results indicate that metaevaluators tend to assign the score of 2 for group-personalization quality and the score of 3 for platform-personalization
quality sparsely. The reason might be misunderstanding the score specification (especially in case
of group personalization). Therefore the interpretation for the comparison purpose should combine
these two scores together (as a single category).
There are some differences in personalization
capabilities between targeting groups and platforms. Overall, targeting the social-media plat-

Generator

Generator

5.2
Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0
200 400 600 800 1000
Text count

Differences Across Languages (RQ2)

Analogously to the previous subsection, the evaluation of personalization capabilities across languages is illustrated in Fig. 3. In both personalization types, English (en) achieves the highest quality
of personalization, followed by German (de). Both
cases represent high-resource languages, dominating in the LLMs pretraining. On the other hand,
Estonian as a low-resource language achieved the
lowest quality of personalization.
In Table 4, personalization quality per each language for each LLM generator is provided. The
values represent mean scores (values between 0
to 3, higher is better quality) of each generator
averaged between the two personalization types.
This comparison shows that the Gemma-3 models dominates in personalization capabilities across
all tested languages. All the used LLMs have better personalization capabilities in English than the
other languages.
There are significant differences in personalization capabilities between English and nonEnglish languages. Statistical significance was
tested by a paired t-test with α = 0.05. Although
the results might be affected by metaevaluation of
personalization quality (also performing possibly

Figure 2: Per-generator comparison of personalization
capabilities targeting groups (top, not including texts
without target-group personalization request) and platforms (bottom).

6

Generator
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
↓ Average

cs
0.6736
0.8194
0.0972
0.7222
1.3056
2.0208
2.2500
0.2986
0.0069
0.0000
0.0000
0.9444
0.4931
0.1806
1.2778
0.5486
0.7274

de
0.4653
0.9861
0.1042
0.8542
1.2500
2.2639
2.4306
0.7708
0.0833
0.0000
0.1042
1.3958
1.6736
0.8542
1.6806
0.9167
0.9896

en
1.7431
1.6042
0.6250
1.0972
1.3958
2.5000
2.5764
1.0000
1.0000
0.0417
0.7708
1.6458
2.3125
2.0069
2.0625
1.9792
1.5226

et
0.9375
0.3681
0.0625
0.4167
0.8333
1.9097
1.7361
0.2431
0.0000
0.0069
0.0208
0.8819
0.3194
0.5417
0.9722
0.2917
0.5964

Language
hr
hu
0.9028 0.7014
0.7014 0.2708
0.0764 0.0417
0.5556 0.5903
1.1181 1.2986
2.0833 2.0833
2.2986 1.9514
0.5556 0.5972
0.0347 0.0208
0.0139 0.0000
0.0347 0.0000
1.0556 1.0556
0.4375 0.4028
0.2847 0.2431
1.3125 1.2917
0.8264 0.4444
0.7682 0.6871

pl
0.1875
0.7917
0.1042
0.9653
1.2847
2.0903
2.4861
0.6181
0.0347
0.0000
0.0000
1.0347
0.5625
0.2639
1.4236
0.6875
0.7834

sk
0.8403
0.7292
0.0556
0.8194
1.2847
2.0347
2.1597
0.4792
0.0000
0.0000
0.0139
0.9583
0.6458
0.5139
1.1250
0.5903
0.7656

sl
0.7431
0.5764
0.0556
0.5972
1.1944
2.0347
2.0694
0.4028
0.0000
0.0000
0.0069
0.9444
0.4722
0.3681
1.2917
0.5347
0.7057

uk
→ Average
0.6528
0.7847
0.5972
0.7444
0.0972
0.1319
0.7292
0.7347
1.0000
1.1965
1.9861
2.1007
2.1528
2.2111
0.0833
0.5049
0.0833
0.1264
0.0000
0.0062
0.0556
0.1007
0.4722
1.0389
0.6458
0.7965
0.0972
0.5354
1.4028
1.3840
0.6458
0.7465
0.6688
0.8215

Table 4: Per-language per-generator comparison of mean personalization capabilities (mean scores averaged across
the two personalization types). Darker color gradient represents higher mean personalization quality.
Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
cs
de
en
et
hr
hu
pl
sk
sl
uk
0
200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
cs
de
en
et
hr
hu
pl
sk
sl
uk
0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750
Text count

5.3

Detectability Analysis (RQ3)

Language

Language

To evaluate the effect of personalization on detectability of machine-generated texts, we averaged
the predictions by three existing multilingual detector for each text. The results are represented in the
form of true positive rate, i.e., a proportion of the
texts that are detected as machine-generated by existing detectors. The results summarized in Table 5
indicate that about 3/4 of the texts are correctly
detected.
The detectability of generated personalized
texts varies across languages. On average, the
texts in Ukrainian (uk) are the most difficult to detect (TPR of 0.72), followed by English, German,
and Slovenian (TPR of 0.75). The best detectability was observed in case of Hungarian texts (TPR
of 0.82). However, the results are not consistent
across the LLM generators. The most difficult do
detect are the texts generated by the Gemma-3-27Bit model, but also the smaller Llama-3.2 models.
The easiest to detect are the text generated by the
smaller Qwen3 models. Therefore, the detectability is not affected by personalization only (the best
quality of Gemma-3 vs the lowest quality of Llama3.2 models), but also the presence of noise and
failed translations.
The actual effect of personalization (both types,
targeting groups and platforms) is illustrated in
Table 6. The results indicate that Eurpean conservatives target group personalization makes the texts
the easiest to detect, while targeting Twitter makes
the texts consistently the most difficult to detect.
The Twitter platform has a stricter length-limitation
of the texts, which naturally makes the detection

Figure 3: Per-language comparison of personalization
capabilities targeting groups (top, not including texts
without target-group personalization request) and platforms (bottom).

better for English), the differences are clear by a
large margin. All the models have consistently
better personalization capabilities in English. For
example, the Mistral model achieved almost the
same personalization quality as the Gemma-3 models for English, but significantly lower for German,
and much lower for other languages.
7

Generator
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
↓ Average

cs
0.7593
0.8241
0.9321
0.8179
0.7068
0.6389
0.6821
0.8364
0.6481
0.5247
0.5247
0.9290
0.8611
0.9753
0.7932
0.9691
0.7764

de
0.8025
0.7469
0.8580
0.7747
0.5556
0.3765
0.6049
0.7747
0.7562
0.8025
0.8333
0.9198
0.7716
0.9537
0.5833
0.8920
0.7504

en
0.7562
0.6605
0.8889
0.7222
0.6080
0.3704
0.6235
0.8796
0.9444
0.8642
0.9290
0.9321
0.6574
0.8765
0.4691
0.7531
0.7459

et
0.7562
0.8025
0.8765
0.8549
0.7963
0.7932
0.8302
0.7809
0.5185
0.6142
0.5216
0.8889
0.8241
0.9105
0.8827
0.9938
0.7903

Language
hr
hu
0.6543 0.8395
0.8488 0.8920
0.9259 0.9074
0.8056 0.8333
0.7160 0.6605
0.5802 0.7099
0.6975 0.8333
0.8148 0.8488
0.6914 0.6914
0.6235 0.6080
0.5926 0.6173
0.8704 0.9691
0.7685 0.8426
0.9784 0.9877
0.7840 0.8642
0.9321 0.9938
0.7677 0.8187

pl
0.8488
0.6883
0.9383
0.8117
0.6667
0.5679
0.6019
0.8580
0.7377
0.6759
0.5123
0.9599
0.7809
0.9753
0.7747
0.9414
0.7712

sk
0.7593
0.8519
0.8951
0.8333
0.6667
0.5957
0.6265
0.8735
0.6204
0.5000
0.5617
0.9228
0.8148
0.9753
0.8117
0.9877
0.7685

sl
0.6265
0.8735
0.9012
0.7901
0.6543
0.4630
0.6914
0.8179
0.6698
0.5741
0.6790
0.8272
0.7747
0.9475
0.7531
0.9660
0.7506

uk
→ Average
0.6821
0.7485
0.7160
0.7904
0.9105
0.9034
0.7778
0.8022
0.6235
0.6654
0.4599
0.5556
0.6080
0.6799
0.7500
0.8235
0.7068
0.6985
0.5093
0.6296
0.4907
0.6262
0.7840
0.9003
0.8395
0.7935
0.9907
0.9571
0.7191
0.7435
0.9722
0.9401
0.7213
0.7661

Table 5: Per-language per-generator evaluation of generated-texts detectability (average TPR across the three
detectors). Darker color gradient represents higher TPR.
Target platform
Target group
Mastodon Telegram Twitter → Average
None
0.7677
0.7665
0.7288
0.7543
European conservatives
0.7917
0.7922
0.7708
0.7849
0.7710
0.7658
0.7405
0.7591
Urban population
↓ Average
0.7768
0.7748
0.7467
0.7661

Stance
Narrative
Against Supporting → Average
Bucha massacre was staged
0.7836
0.8257
0.8046
Cannabis is a ’cancer killer’
0.7292
0.7664
0.7478
EU wants to conceal the presence 0.7387
0.7331
0.7359
of the insects in products...
People die after being vaccinated 0.7748
0.8257
0.8002
against COVID-19
Planes are spraying chemtrails
0.7269
0.7831
0.7550
Ukraine hosts secret US bio-labs 0.7354
0.7708
0.7531
↓ Average
0.7481
0.7841
0.7661

Table 6: Per-platform per-group evaluation of generatedtexts detectability (average TPR across the three detectors). Bold represents the lowest value per each column.

Table 7: Per-stance per-narrative evaluation of
generated-texts detectability (average TPR across the
three detectors). Bold represents the lowest value per
each column.

challenging (shorter texts). Interestingly, the European conservatives target group achieve the highest group-personalization quality, while the worst
platform-personalization quality. It also has the
lowest linguistic-acceptability and output-contentquality scores, as well as the highest amount of
noise.
Personalization-quality towards platforms influences detectability more than personalizationquality towards target groups. When removing
noisy and safety-filtered texts, we observe a consistent and significant decrease of true positive rate
for the increasing platform-personalization quality
(TPR averaging from 0.93 for 0-score quality to
0.67 for 3-score quality). We do not observe such a
clear correlation for group-personalization quality,
although the well-personalized texts have worse detectability than the non-personalized texts (average
TPR of 0.72 vs 0.8, respectively).
The results in Table 7 also show differences in
detectability based on stance towards the disinformation narrative, where the texts supporting the narrative have better detectability than those against
the narrative. This behavior can be considered safer
than in other case. There are also some noticeable

differences in detectability based on the narratives
themselves (average TPR ranging from 0.74 to 0.8).

6

Conclusions

This study, focused on multilingual personalization capabilities of text-generation LLMs, revealed
differences in capabilities when personalizing the
text towards specific target demographic groups
and towards specific social-media platforms. The
results indicate significantly higher personalization
capabilities for texts generated in English than nonEnglish languages. Also, the detectability of generated texts is lower for well-personalized text in
English than the other languages. Ukrainian is however the most difficult to detect on average (maybe
due to the Cyrillic script). Platform-based personalization decreases the detectability in higher amount
than group-based personalization.

8

Limitations

cient zero-shot detection of machine-generated text
via conditional probability curvature. In The Twelfth
International Conference on Learning Representations.

Our key findings rely on an LLM-based metaevaluation of personalization quality. Although we have
used 3 LLMs to limit the effect of internal biases in
evaluation, there can still be some. The study is limited to 10 languages of 3 language-family branches;
however, we are unsure about generalization of our
findings to other languages. We have limited the
generators to 16 SOTA LLMs. The results for other
LLMs might differ.

Dipto Barman. 2025. Rethinking misinformation mitigation: The case for personalized digital interventions. SIGWEB Newsl., 2025(Winter).
Robert Bideleux and Ian Jeffries. 2007. A history of
Eastern Europe: Crisis and change. Routledge.
Jan Blom. 2000. Personalization: a taxonomy. In CHI
’00 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, CHI EA ’00, page 313–314, New York,
NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Ethics Statement

Lorenzo Cima, Alessio Miaschi, Amaury Trujillo,
Marco Avvenuti, Felice Dell’Orletta, and Stefano
Cresci. 2025. Contextualized counterspeech: Strategies for adaptation, personalization, and evaluation.
In Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025,
WWW ’25, page 5022–5033, New York, NY, USA.
Association for Computing Machinery.

To balance the negative effect of evaluation of personalization capabilities of LLM while generating
disinformation, we evaluate the same also while
generating counter-disinformation texts (usable for
argumentation and intervention). The artifacts and
results of this study are intended for research purpose only to evaluate personalization capabilities
of existing LLMs. The existing artifacts used in
this work have been properly cited and used according their licenses and intended use. We have
also checked and followed licensing and terms of
use of the used LLMs. AI assistants have not been
used for conducting research in any other way than
already described in the paper (text generation and
metaevaluation).

Xiao Fu, Hossein A. Rahmani, Bin Wu, Jerome Ramos,
Emine Yilmaz, and Aldo Lipani. 2025. PREF:
Reference-free evaluation of personalised text generation in LLMs. Preprint, arXiv:2508.10028.
Ewelina Gajewska, Arda Derbent, Jaroslaw A Chudziak,
and Katarzyna Budzynska. 2025.
Algorithmic fairness in NLP: Persona-infused LLMs for
human-centric hate speech detection. Preprint,
arXiv:2510.19331.
Lang Gao, Xuhui Li, Chenxi Wang, Mingzhe Li, Wei
Liu, Zirui Song, Jinghui Zhang, Rui Yan, Preslav
Nakov, and Xiuying Chen. 2025. When personalization tricks detectors: The feature-inversion
trap in machine-generated text detection. Preprint,
arXiv:2510.12476.

Acknowledgments
Funded by the EU NextGenerationEU through the
Recovery and Resilience Plan for Slovakia under
the project No. 09I01-03-V04-00068.
Computational resources. We acknowledge
EuroHPC Joint Undertaking for awarding us access to Leonardo at CINECA, Italy. Part of the
research results was obtained using the computational resources procured in the national project
National competence centre for high performance
computing (project code: 311070AKF2) funded by
European Regional Development Fund, EU Structural Funds Informatization of Society, Operational
Program Integrated Infrastructure.

Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri,
Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad AlDahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh
Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur
Hinsvark, and 542 others. 2024. The Llama 3 herd
of models. Preprint, arXiv:2407.21783.
Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song,
Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma,
Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang, Xingkai
Yu, Yu Wu, Z. F. Wu, Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao,
Zhuoshu Li, Ziyi Gao, Aixin Liu, and 180 others.
2025. DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in LLMs via reinforcement learning. Preprint,
arXiv:2501.12948.

References
2024. Mistral NeMo: our new best small model. a stateof-the-art 12B model with 128k context length, built
in collaboration with NVIDIA, and released under
the Apache 2.0 license. Release blog.

Rishav Hada, Varun Gumma, Mohamed Ahmed, Kalika Bali, and Sunayana Sitaram. 2024. METAL:
Towards multilingual meta-evaluation. In Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
NAACL 2024, pages 2280–2298, Mexico City, Mexico. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Guangsheng Bao, Yanbin Zhao, Zhiyang Teng, Linyi
Yang, and Yue Zhang. 2024. Fast-DetectGPT: Effi-

9

Abhimanyu Hans, Avi Schwarzschild, Valeriia
Cherepanova, Hamid Kazemi, Aniruddha Saha,
Micah Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, and Tom Goldstein.
2024. Spotting LLMs with Binoculars: Zero-shot
detection of machine-generated text. In Proceedings
of the 41st International Conference on Machine
Learning, ICML’24. JMLR.org.

Mikel Ngueajio, Flor Miriam Plaza-del Arco, Yi-Ling
Chung, Danda Rawat, and Amanda Cercas Curry.
2025. Think like a person before responding: A
multi-faceted evaluation of persona-guided LLMs for
countering hate speech. In Proceedings of the The
9th Workshop on Online Abuse and Harms (WOAH),
pages 104–123, Vienna, Austria. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

Freddy Heppell, Mehmet E. Bakir, and Kalina
Bontcheva. 2024. Lying blindly: Bypassing ChatGPT’s safeguards to generate hard-to-detect disinformation claims at scale. Preprint, arXiv:2402.08467.

Morgane Riviere, Shreya Pathak, Pier Giuseppe
Sessa, Cassidy Hardin, Surya Bhupatiraju, Léonard
Hussenot, Thomas Mesnard, Bobak Shahriari,
Alexandre Ramé, Johan Ferret, Peter Liu, Pouya
Tafti, Abe Friesen, Michelle Casbon, Sabela Ramos,
Ravin Kumar, Charline Le Lan, Sammy Jerome, Anton Tsitsulin, and 178 others. 2024. Gemma 2: Improving open language models at a practical size.
Preprint, arXiv:2408.00118.

Aishwarya Kamath, Johan Ferret, Shreya Pathak, Nino
Vieillard, Ramona Merhej, Sarah Perrin, Tatiana
Matejovicova, Alexandre Ramé, Morgane Rivière,
Louis Rouillard, Thomas Mesnard, Geoffrey Cideron,
Jean bastien Grill, Sabela Ramos, Edouard Yvinec,
Michelle Casbon, Etienne Pot, Ivo Penchev, Gaël
Liu, and 196 others. 2025. Gemma 3 technical report.
Preprint, arXiv:2503.19786.

Alireza Salemi, Julian Killingback, and Hamed Zamani.
2025. ExPerT: Effective and explainable evaluation
of personalized long-form text generation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
ACL 2025, pages 17516–17532, Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying
Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Efficient
memory management for large language model serving with PagedAttention. In Proceedings of the 29th
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, SOSP
’23, page 611–626, New York, NY, USA. Association
for Computing Machinery.

Oleh Shliazhko, Alena Fenogenova, Maria Tikhonova,
Anastasia Kozlova, Vladislav Mikhailov, and Tatiana
Shavrina. 2024. mGPT: Few-shot learners go multilingual. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 12:58–79.

João A. Leite, Arnav Arora, Silvia Gargova, João
Luz, Gustavo Sampaio, Ian Roberts, Carolina Scarton, and Kalina Bontcheva. 2025. A multilingual, large-scale study of the interplay between
LLM safeguards, personalisation, and disinformation.
Preprint, arXiv:2510.12993.

Ivan Vykopal, Matúš Pikuliak, Ivan Srba, Robert Moro,
Dominik Macko, and Maria Bielikova. 2024. Disinformation capabilities of large language models.
In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 14830–14847, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Jason Lucas, Adaku Uchendu, Michiharu Yamashita,
Jooyoung Lee, Shaurya Rohatgi, and Dongwon Lee.
2023. Fighting fire with fire: The dual role of LLMs
in crafting and detecting elusive disinformation. In
Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
14279–14305, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yaqing Wang, Jiepu Jiang, Mingyang Zhang, Cheng
Li, Yi Liang, Qiaozhu Mei, and Michael Bendersky.
2023. Automated evaluation of personalized text
generation using large language models. Preprint,
arXiv:2310.11593.

Dominik Macko. 2025. mdok of KInIT: Robustly finetuned LLM for binary and multiclass AI-generated
text detection. Preprint, arXiv:2506.01702.

An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao,
Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu, Hao
Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, and 41
others. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. Preprint,
arXiv:2505.09388.

Dominik Macko, Robert Moro, and Ivan Srba. 2025a.
Increasing the robustness of the fine-tuned multilingual machine-generated text detectors. Preprint,
arXiv:2503.15128.
Dominik Macko and Andrew Pulver. 2025. PerQ: Efficient evaluation of multilingual text personalization
quality. Preprint, arXiv:2509.25903.

Aneta Zugecova, Dominik Macko, Ivan Srba, Robert
Moro, Jakub Kopál, Katarína Marcinčinová, and
Matúš Mesarčík. 2025. Evaluation of LLM vulnerabilities to being misused for personalized disinformation generation. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 780–797,
Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Dominik Macko, Aashish Anantha Ramakrishnan, Jason Samuel Lucas, Robert Moro, Ivan Srba, Adaku
Uchendu, and Dongwon Lee. 2025b. Beyond
speculation: Measuring the growing presence of
LLM-generated texts in multilingual disinformation.
Preprint, arXiv:2503.23242.

10

A

Computational Resources

B

Generator

For the texts generation, we have used 4× A100
64GB GPU, cumulatively consuming approximately 220 GPU-hours. For metaevaluation, we
have used 2x A100 64GB GPU consuming approximately 170 GPU-hours. For evaluation of
detectability of generated texts, we have used 1x
A100 64GB, consuming about 100 GPU-hours. For
other tasks, we have not used GPU acceleration.

Ablation Study

Generator

Agree

Both

DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B

0

Stance towards the narrative
Disagree
Neither

200

400

600
Text count

Generator

As an ablation study, we have limited the analysis
to the text samples that have been metaevaluated
as not containing safetyfilters nor noise. This provides assurance that the observations of differences
across LLM generators and languages (especially
in personalization capabilities) are not significantly
affected by noisy messages. Figure 4 illustrates
per-generator distribution of metaevaluated stance
of the generated texts towards the disinformation
narratives. Similarly, Figure 5 illustrates distribution of metaevaluated stance according to the
intended stance in the requests. It shows that the
texts that should support the narrative are predominantly agreeing with the narrative; however, the
texts that should be against the narrative are almost
equally evaluated as agreeing and disagreeing with

Figure 6: Per-generator comparison of personalization
capabilities targeting groups (top, not including texts
without target-group personalization request) and platforms (bottom) without safety-filtered and noisy samples.

the narrative.
Figures 6 and 7 illustrate the comparison of personalization capabilities across generators and languages using such filtered samples. Major observations hold as reported in Section 5.
To further ensure validity of metaevaluation, in
Figure 8, we compare metaevaluated quality of
personalization towards target groups by one of
the metaevaluators (Mistral) before and after cleaning of the texts using heuristics to crop redundant
parts (noise), such as translations or explanations.
Detailed cleaning algorithm is available in the published code. The results aggregated per generators
show only small differences, further supporting the
validity of the reported observations.

Unevaluated

800

1000

Figure 4: Per-generator comparison of stance towards
the narrative without safety-filtered and noisy samples.

Stance

Agree

Both

Stance towards the narrative
Disagree
Neither

Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0
200 400 600 800 1000
Text count

C

Unevaluated

Data

In Figures 9–11, we provide additional aggregations of the results for further comparisons.

Against
Supporting
0

1000

2000

3000
4000
Text count

5000

6000

Figure 5: Per-intended-stance comparison of metaevaluated stance towards the narrative without safety-filtered
and noisy samples.

11

Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
cs
de
en
et
hr
hu
pl
sk
sl
uk
0
200
400
600
800
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
cs
de
en
et
hr
hu
pl
sk
sl
uk
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
Text count
Language

Target group

1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent

0

1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Text count

Platform

Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
Mastodon
Telegram
Twitter

Platform

500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent

Quality of personalization towards target group
0: Non-personalized
2: Personalized illogically
1: Personalized to a low extent
3: Well-personalized
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0
200 400 600 800 1000
Text count
Quality of personalization towards target group
0: Non-personalized
2: Personalized illogically
1: Personalized to a low extent
3: Well-personalized
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B
DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B
Gemma-2-27B-it
Gemma-2-2B-it
Gemma-2-9B-it
Gemma-3-27B-it
Gemma-3-4B-it
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Qwen3-1.7B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-4B
0
200 400 600 800 1000
Text count

0

Mastodon
Telegram
Twitter

0

1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Text count

Figure 10: Per-target-platform comparison of personalization capabilities targeting groups (top, not including
texts without target-group personalization request) and
platforms (bottom).

Stance

Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent
Against
Supporting
0

1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
Text count
Quality of personalization towards platform
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized moderately
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent

Stance

Generator

None
European conservatives
Urban population

0

Figure 9: Per-target-group comparison of personalization capabilities targeting groups (top) and platforms
(bottom).

Figure 7: Per-language comparison of personalization
capabilities targeting groups (top, not including texts
without target-group personalization request) and platforms (bottom) without safety-filtered and noisy samples.

Generator

None
European conservatives
Urban population

Target group

Language

Quality of personalization towards target group
Safety-filtered
2: Personalized illogically
0: Non-personalized
3: Well-personalized
1: Personalized to a low extent

Against
Supporting
0

Figure 8: Per-generator comparison of grouppersonalization capabilities metaevaluated by Mistral
before (top) and after (bottom) heuristic cleaning of redundant parts of generated texts.

2000

4000
6000
Text count

8000

Figure 11: Per-intended-stance comparison of personalization capabilities targeting groups (top, not including
texts without target-group personalization request) and
platforms (bottom).

12

