# arXiv:2410.22716v4 [cs.SI] 24 Apr 2025

**Source:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22716
**ArXiv ID:** 2410.22716

---

arXiv:2410.22716v4 [cs.SI] 24 Apr 2025

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the
Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election
Federico Cinus∗

Marco Minici∗

University of Southern California, ISI, Los Angeles, USA
CENTAI, Turin, Italy
Sapienza University, DIAG, Rome, Italy
cinus@diag.uniroma1.it

University of Southern California, ISI, Los Angeles, USA
ICAR-CNR, Rende, Italy
University of Pisa, CS Department, Pisa, Italy
marco.minici@icar.cnr.it

Luca Luceri

Emilio Ferrara

University of Southern California, ISI, Los Angeles, USA
luceri@isi.edu

University of Southern California, ISI, Los Angeles, USA
emiliofe@usc.edu

Abstract
Coordinated information operations remain a persistent challenge
on social media, despite platform efforts to curb them. While previous research has primarily focused on identifying these operations
within individual platforms, this study shows that coordination
frequently transcends platform boundaries. Leveraging newly collected data of online conversations related to the 2024 U.S. Election
across X (formerly, Twitter), Facebook, and Telegram, we construct
similarity networks to detect coordinated communities exhibiting
suspicious sharing behaviors within and across platforms. Proposing an advanced coordination detection model, we reveal evidence
of potential foreign interference, with Russian-affiliated media being systematically promoted across Telegram and X. Our analysis
also uncovers substantial intra- and cross-platform coordinated
inauthentic activity, driving the spread of highly partisan, lowcredibility, and conspiratorial content. These findings highlight
the urgent need for regulatory measures that extend beyond individual platforms to effectively address the growing challenge of
cross-platform coordinated influence campaigns.

CCS Concepts
• Human-centered computing → Social networks; • Information systems → Social networks.

Keywords
Information Operations, Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior

1

Introduction

Social media has evolved into a vital arena for public discourse,
where individuals and communities discuss political, social, and cultural issues. These platforms have fostered large-scale movements
like the Arab Spring and Black Lives Matter, enabling activists and
citizens to amplify calls for justice and change [22, 27]. However,
social media has also been linked to polarization and radicalization, as seen in events surrounding the U.S. Capitol attack [14, 39],
where online platforms played a role in mobilizing and coordinating
participants [69]. Similar cases include the Christchurch mosque
∗ These authors contributed equally to this work.

shootings [16] and far-right rallies across Europe [32, 61], where
social media content has exacerbated divisive sentiments and mobilized fringe communities [12]. The influence of online discourse has
contributed to the establishment of state-sponsored information
operations aimed at steering public opinion by introducing false
or misleading narratives on popular platforms [48, 52, 72]. Online
platforms actively monitor and attempt to mitigate the integrity
threats posed by information operations [46, 68, 75].
Coordinated inauthentic behavior is a prominent tactic for distorting public discourse by amplifying specific viewpoints and giving the illusion of widespread support [10, 25, 31, 49, 59]. These
activities typically involve synchronized posting and co-activity
behavior patterns [43, 56, 59]— such as similar retweets, hashtag
sequences, link sharing— designed to push particular narratives to
the forefront of public attention. Studies have also documented how
these coordinated behaviors contribute to detrimental social effects,
such as the spread of propaganda [29], conspiracy theories [66], and
the promotion of disinformation [71]. Moreover, coordinated online
actions have been linked to heightened toxicity in online conversations [35] and the dissemination of extremist ideologies [33, 69].
In recent years, research has increasingly examined social media’s role in political elections. Studies on Brazilian elections highlight how bots and coordinated networks shape public opinion,
raising concerns on computational propaganda [57, 73]. Similarly,
research on European elections has shown how misinformation
campaigns spread across social media can alter public perceptions,
as seen in countries such as France, Germany, and Italy [6, 17, 36, 54].
In the United States, investigations reveal how coordinated bot activity and foreign influence operations distorted online discussions and
amplified divisive content across election cycles [7, 21, 28, 38, 41, 66].
However, most of this literature focuses on identifying such operations within individual platforms, predominantly Twitter, with
limited investigation across the broader information space [24].

Contribution of this work
In this work, we expand on current research in coordination detection by broadening our scope to include the identification of
coordinated inauthentic activity (CoIA) spanning multiple platforms. We adhere to the definition of “coordinated and inauthentic
behavior” provided by Meta1 and Twitter/X2 . We build on, adapt,
1 about.fb.com/news/tag/coordinated-inauthentic-behavior/

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.

2 help.x.com/en/rules-and-policies/authenticity

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

and advance state-of-the-art coordination detection techniques to
identify intra- and cross-platform CoIA that promotes external web
domains and amplify specific narratives in the context of the 2024
U.S. Presidential Election. We leverage a large-scale dataset covering
election-related online conversations spanning several platforms
[9? ], including Twitter/X, Facebook, and Telegram, collected during the run-up months to the Presidential Election. Combining
insights from computational techniques for CoIA detection and language models for content analysis, we aim to answer the following
Research Questions (RQs):
RQ1 : Web Domain Promotion. Do we observe intra- and crossplatform CoIAs aimed at redirecting traffic towards specific
web domains? What are the characteristics of coordinated
accounts, and which specific domains do they promote?
RQ2 : Content Amplification. Do we observe CoIAs pushing specific narratives? What are the characteristics of coordinated
accounts, and which specific topics do they amplify?
RQ3 : Engagement & Impact. What level of engagement do CoIAs
generate across various platforms? And how does it compare
to the engagement garnered by organic users?
Leveraging our multi-platform dataset and advancing CoIA detection techniques, we uncover multiple networks of coordinated
accounts performing CoIA. We analyzed the textual content and
link-sharing behaviors of these accounts, identifying the narratives they aim to amplify and the external domains they direct
traffic to, assessing both their credibility and ties to foreign and
domestic entities. Our findings reveal coordinated efforts to promote Russian-affiliated media across Telegram and X, with highly
partisan, low-credibility content systematically amplified by these
networks. Conspiracy theories surrounding public health, the environment, and political topics, such as immigration and geopolitical
tensions, were prominently featured. Notably, QAnon-related narratives were especially prevalent on Telegram, with coordinated
accounts driving much of the discussion. Furthermore, we assessed
the prevalence of AI-generated content produced by coordinated
actors and the level of engagement their content attracted. We
found that coordinated actors on Telegram relied on AI-generated
content significantly more than organic users, while the opposite
trend was observed on Facebook. This study sheds new light on
cross-platform coordination efforts related to the upcoming U.S.
Presidential Election, revealing the complex dynamics of influence
operations. These findings underscore the urgent need for regulatory measures that go beyond individual platforms to effectively
tackle the growing challenge of cross-platform coordinated inauthentic activity.

2

Related Work

Influence Campaigns Interfering with U.S. Elections. A growing body of research has examined the influence of coordinated
disinformation campaigns in U.S. elections, particularly efforts by
foreign and domestic actors to manipulate social media during the
2016 and 2020 Presidential Elections [7, 21, 65, 69]. For example, the
Russian Internet Research Agency (IRA) was linked to a large-scale
disinformation campaign during the 2016 election, deploying thousands of social bots and state-sponsored trolls to promote divisive
narratives and foster discord [3, 4]. The activity of these inauthentic

actors has been extensively studied on Twitter [1, 40, 42, 76], with
fewer studies examining their presence on other platforms [77, 78].
Similarly, the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election witnessed the propagation of false claims and conspiracy theories, including narratives
about voter fraud and COVID-19 misinformation [21]. Examples include the “Stop the Steal” movement, which spread across platforms
like Twitter and Facebook, inciting allegations that the election results were fraudulent [14, 69]. Coordinated activity surrounding
this narrative was widespread, often involving amplification techniques such as automated retweets or sharing similar content across
accounts to create an illusion of widespread consensus [39].
Detecting Coordinated Inauthentic Activity. Coordinated inauthentic activity has been identified as a predominant tactic in
spreading disinformation and conspiratorial content [43, 58]. While
not always malicious, coordination can also occur in legitimate
organizing efforts, such as social movements. However, in disinformation campaigns, it is typically characterized by manipulative
actions aimed at amplifying highly partisan content [53, 59].
The detection of such deceptive, orchestrated efforts has evolved
to address both automated and human-coordinated activities through
advanced machine learning and network-based approaches. Traditionally, machine learning focused on identifying automated activities, such as bot-like behavior, and distinguishing them from human
actions [11, 74]. Recently, attention has shifted toward characterizing suspicious human-operated accounts, with research emphasizing content-, behavioral-, and sequence-based methods to detect
coordinated actions by state-sponsored trolls [2, 15, 30, 37, 42, 55].
Network-based detection has gained prominence due to its ability
to reveal coordinated behavior by constructing networks that highlight similarities in user actions, such as shared content, hashtags,
or synchronized posting times [43–45, 53, 58, 59]. Typical networkbased metrics, such as centrality measures or edge weights, help
identify clusters of users involved in coordinated Information Operations (IOs) within individual platforms, mainly Twitter [43, 67, 69].
While previous work analyzed cross-platform harmful dynamics [24, 51, 77], our approach introduces a fine-grained unsupervised
coordination detection framework by combining multiple network
measures (edge weights and node centralities) to identify highly
coordinated accounts engaged in CoIA across multiple platforms.

3

Data

We collected data to analyze online discourse surrounding the 2024
U.S. Presidential Election across multiple social media platforms.
Our data collection spans May and June 2024 and covers three major
online platforms: Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Telegram.
Each platform was queried for posts or messages containing specific
election-related keywords (see Appendix A).
Facebook data was collected through (the now defunct) Crowdtangle, which offered access to public posts of groups and pages.
For X, we gather publicly available information, including original
tweets, retweets, replies, and quotes, retrieved via the platform’s
web interface. Finally, Telegram data was gathered using the Telegram API, allowing the extraction of public chats’ details, metadata,
messages, and message attachments. Details on the X and Telegram
data collection infrastructure can be found in [5, 9].

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

To ensure consistency across all three platforms, we applied
an identical filtering criterion, restricting the dataset to posts and
messages published between May 1, 2024, and June 30, 2024.
Table 1 presents a summary of the datasets, including the number
of accounts,3 posts, and unique URLs for each platform.

Platform

Pages
Accounts
Channels

Posts
Tweets
Messages

URLs

Domains

Facebook
X/Twitter
Telegram

6,137
178,379
15,537

46,310
6,021,428
4,309,880

15,009
582,052
2,087,078

5,247
35,922
183,924

Table 1: Dataset statistics across platforms.

4 Methodology
4.1 Exposing CoIA within and across Social
Media Platforms
Coordinated accounts employ various strategies to run campaigns;
here, we analyze two key approaches: promoting specific URLs
(or web domains) and generating highly similar textual content to
amplify topics. The former creates the illusion of public consensus
by artificially boosting links to external webpages, mock websites,
and other social media networks [23, 47]. The latter manipulates
platform feed algorithms by pushing specific keywords or hashtags,
attempting to boost trending topics and inflate content popularity [59, 69]. We refer to these orchestrated efforts as web domain
promotion and content amplification, respectively.
Since URL-sharing follows a consistent mechanism across platforms, we analyze web domain promotion both within and across
platforms, using unique URLs embedded in posts to track coordination. In contrast, textual similarity is analyzed only within individual platforms due to significant variability in content formats
and constraints. Structural differences, such as character limits and
messaging styles (e.g., Telegram chats vs. Facebook and X posts),
make cross-platform textual analysis unreliable.
4.1.1 Detection of Web Domain Promotion. To detect orchestrated
campaigns promoting specific web domains, we analyze user similarities based on shared URLs, including both platform-specific
and outbound links. To ensure data quality and reduce noise, we
applied several preprocessing steps. First, we set a minimum activity threshold, requiring each user to share at least 10 unique
URLs. This criterion, consistent with prior work [43, 59], filters out
low-engagement users who could alter the detection of coordinated
accounts. Next, we expanded shortened or obfuscated URLs using
a URL expansion library4 , a common practice in the literature [34].
Co-URL similarity network. We constructed a bipartite user-URL
network, where users connect to URLs they share. In the network’s
adjacency matrix, rows correspond to users and columns to URLs.
Following prior work [43, 59], we applied Term Frequency-Inverse
3We will use the term accounts to also refer to Facebook pages, Facebook groups, and
Telegram channels.
4 github.com/dfreelon/unspooler

Document Frequency (TF-IDF) to represent the user-URL matrix.
To prevent bias toward overly frequent URLs, we set a maximum
“document” frequency at the 90th percentile and a minimum threshold of five occurrences per URL. This filters out both extremely rare
and overly common URLs, ensuring a more meaningful set of URLs.
The bipartite user-URL network is transformed into a user-touser similarity network by comparing pairwise co-shared URLs.
Specifically, this similarity network is constructed by computing the
pairwise cosine similarity between user TF-IDF vectors within the
bipartite graph. This measure serves as the edge weight, quantifying
the degree of similarity between users based on their shared URLs.
Intra-platform and cross-platform detection. Being agnostic
to the platform under scrutiny, URLs serve as common entities
that can be analyzed across different platforms to identify potential
cross-platform campaigns. Therefore, we constructed two types of
co-URL networks: intra-platform and cross-platform. For the intraplatform network, we computed cosine similarity between all pairs
of users within the same platform. For the cross-platform network,
we calculated pairwise similarity only between users from different
platforms, linking users based on their shared URL patterns.
Extraction of network properties for coordinated accounts
detection. To identify online coordination, we build upon and integrate state-of-the-art strategies that detect CoIAs by filtering either
low-weight edges or peripheral nodes from the similarity network.
The first approach [59] emphasizes similarity strength, filtering out
low-weight edges that likely represent spurious similarities. The
second approach [43] focuses on the breadth of similarities, pruning
nodes based on their centrality, i.e., the number of connections in a
similarity network. This approach assumes that coordinated activity
involves multiple accounts working together, which in a similarity
network is expected to be reflected as a prominent collective similarity, with coordinated accounts linked to many well-connected
nodes. As demonstrated by Luceri et al. [43], this makes eigenvector
centrality an effective metric for detecting coordinated users.
Here, we extend this notion of collective similarity by considering the density of the similarity network. Network density quantifies how close a network is to full connectivity and, in this scenario,
serves as a precise measure of collective similarity. Network density
helps us combine node and edge filtering, balancing the breadth
and strength of similarities for a more comprehensive coordination
detection approach. This represents a conservative approach, which
is especially important since these techniques have not yet been applied to platforms like Telegram and Facebook, where coordination
dynamics may differ significantly.
Density-based unsupervised network dismantling. Our innovative approach leverages network density as a key variable to
modulate the combination of node and edge filtering techniques.
Specifically, edge weight and node eigenvector centrality are used
jointly to identify groups of coordinated accounts by filtering out
edges and nodes that fall below similarity and centrality thresholds,
respectively. To achieve this in a fully unsupervised manner, we
introduce a grid search method that systematically explores the
two-dimensional parameter space of node centrality and edge similarity quantiles. The grid search evaluates network density under
various threshold combinations, progressively filtering nodes and

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

edges while measuring their impact on the density of connected
components within the filtered similarity graph.
We hypothesize that as the filtering thresholds increase, a transitional phase in component density will emerge, signaling the
presence of potentially coordinated accounts. To ensure robustness, we adopt a conservative approach, focusing on the minimum
density among all connected components in the filtered similarity
graph. By prioritizing the component with the lowest density, we
ensure that all remaining components exhibit even higher densities,
minimizing false positives—i.e., reducing the risk of misclassifying legitimate users as coordinated actors. Filtering thresholds are
then selected based on the transitional phase of the lowest-density
component, enabling the identification of highly suspicious CoIA.
Details on the parameter selection are provided in the Appendix.
4.1.2 Detection of Content Amplification. Coordinated actors may
employ a variety of tactics to achieve their goals. A common tactic is
to artificially amplify content on specific topics to create the appearance of widespread grassroots support and manipulate platforms’
feed algorithms [45, 58, 69]. To uncover content amplification, we
construct a Text Similarity Network (TSN), where nodes represent
users linked by the similarity of the content they share. This TSN is
then employed to identify a subset of users exhibiting suspiciously
high similarity, potentially indicating coordinated behavior [59].
The initial step in constructing the TSN involves preprocessing
the raw data to ensure the results are meaningful. In line with standard practices [43], we exclude retweets and remove punctuation,
stopwords, emojis, URLs, as well as any content with fewer than
four words. To capture the semantic nuances of the content, we
embed all text data using the SentenceTransformer model stsb-xlmr-multilingual 5 , and then calculate the average cosine similarity
between pairs of users. To avoid spurious correlations, we consider
text similarity valid only if it occurs within a one-day sliding window. For each window, we calculate the text similarity between the
shared content of user pairs, setting the edge weight in the TSN to
the average similarity observed across all windows.
To identify coordinated accounts, we apply established thresholds from the literature [43, 59]. Specifically, we filter out edges with
similarity below 0.95 and classify users as coordinated if their nodes
rank in the top 0.5% by eigenvector centrality. Due to substantial
variability in textual content sharing, driven by platform-specific
constraints, such as character limits on some platforms, and differences in the nature of messaging (e.g., Telegram chats versus
Facebook and X posts), our analysis of content amplification is
focused only on intra-platform CoIA.

4.2

Characterizing Content Pushed by CoIA

In this section, we outline the methods used to characterize textual
content amplified by coordinated actors. This characterization encompasses topic analysis, AI-generated content detection, and an
assessment of content credibility.
4.2.1 Topic Analysis. Coordinated accounts often amplify specific
narratives or themes to steer public attention toward polarized,
inflammatory, or misleading discussions. To uncover the agendas

these accounts seek to promote, we use BERTopic [26], a state-ofthe-art tool for topic extraction. This approach also helps identify
patterns in shared content, improving our understanding of coordinated activities and their intended impact on public discourse.
Once coordinated accounts are identified using the methodology
outlined in §4.1.2, we apply BERTopic to the entire content corpus.
This allows us to map the topics promoted by coordinated accounts
and compare them with those shared by organic users (i.e., users
not classified as coordinated). We choose BERTopic over alternatives such as LDA or GPT-based approaches because it offers an
effective balance between accuracy and scalability.
4.2.2 AI-Generated Content Detection. AIGC has been linked to
nefarious activities [19], such as orchestrating malicious campaigns.
To identify AI-generated text, we use the approach introduced
by [13], which is designed to identify AI-generated content on
X. We initially trained a RoBERTa6 model on their X dataset and
then evaluated its performance on datasets from other platforms
by developing a new validation set containing approximately 2,000
samples. Results showed precision values ranging from 0.87 to 0.97
in detecting AI-generated content within the validation set, aligning
with our goal of prioritizing precision over recall to minimize false
positives (i.e., misclassified legitimate users). A detailed description
of how we built the validation set and the full results are available
in the Appendix.
4.2.3 Credibility Assessment. We assess the credibility of web domains using Media Bias/Fact Check (MBFC)—an independent watchdog that rates news outlets on a 6-point factuality scale, ranging
from Very Low to Very High. For each post in our datasets, we systematically extract, expand, and parse all embedded URLs, checking
whether the URL belongs to a low- or high-credibility domain.
Given recent news78 and prior instances of interference by Russian agencies in U.S. elections [3], we also examined the potential
amplification of Russian media outlets. Following a similar approach
to previous work [62], we utilize the VoynaSlov dataset [60] to obtain a list of 23 state-affiliated Russian websites. We then check
whether the extracted URLs link to one of these web domains.
Finally, we employ a similar approach to identify content linked
to conspiracies, such as QAnon, given the prevalence of fringe and
conspiratorial theories during the 2020 US Election, and its aftermath [65, 69]. Building on the methodology of [70], we detect posts
sharing QAnon content by utilizing a list of keywords commonly
associated with the conspiracy, as outlined by [65].

5

Results

This section presents the results obtained from the detection of online coordination9 . We first present the results for the detection of
web domain promotion and content amplification. Following the identification of these campaigns, we examine the content pushed by
coordinated networks and the engagement received by suspicious
actors focusing on several interaction and engagement metrics.
6 huggingface.co/FacebookAI/roberta-base
7 www.bbc.com/news/articles/c8rx28v1vpro
8 www.state.gov/u-s-department-of-state-takes-actions-to-counter-russian-influence-

5 huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/stsb-xlm-r-multilingual

and-interference-in-u-s-elections/
9 Code publicly available at github.com/mminici/USElection-CoIA-TheWebConf25

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

Mix of conservative /
partisan / conspiracy
channels and accounts
Partisan Twitter
accounts

Peter Boykin's Facebook
Pages

Highly Influential
Telegram Channels

Conspiracy &
Russian media
Telegram channels

Figure 1: Cross-platform coordination network illustrating
user coordination across the three social media platforms.
The percentages at the bottom right indicate the proportion
of users from each platform within this network.

5.1

Detecting CoIA for Web Domain Promotion
(RQ1)

We detect CoIAs that push web domains within and across platforms as described in Section 4.1.1. We begin by presenting results
for each coordinated network within individual platforms. Following this, we analyze the inter-platform CoIA.
To provide a comprehensive view, we created a cross-platform
network by combining the intra- and inter-platform coordinated networks into a unified network. In this network, nodes are connected
if they are linked in either the intra- or inter-platform coordinated
networks. The primary result of this analysis is displayed in Figure 1, illustrating coordinated activity both within and across the
three platforms under study.
5.1.1 Intra-Platform Coordination. We first analyze each intraplatform CoIA based on the co-URL similarity networks extracted
from each platform separately.
Telegram: We identified 33 highly coordinated channels cosharing URLs to web domains with a partisan slant and low factuality. As shown in the Table 2, the most frequently shared domains
are predominantly right-leaning and of low credibility, as assessed
by MBFC10 and consistent with previous findings [8]. Notably, the
table highlights the presence of a Russian state-controlled media
outlet (RT.com) and its video-on-demand subsidiary (Ruptly.tv),
which could indicate a foreign effort to interfere in the election.

Domain

Shares

Factuality

Leaning

ruptly.tv
rt.com
odysee.com
dailymail.co.uk
thegatewaypundit.com

2,117
1,941
1,602
1,159
746

Mixed
Very Low
Low
Low
Very Low

RIGHT-CENTER
RIGHT-CENTER
RIGHT CONSPIRACY
RIGHT
EXTREME RIGHT

Table 2: Top-5 domains shared in Telegram by coordinated
accounts. Columns represent, from left to right: domain,
the number of shares among coordinated accounts, and the
factuality and political leaning scores based on MBFC.

Domain

Shares

Factuality

Leaning

foxnews.com
foxbusiness.com
tmz.com
conservativeinstitute.com
lifenews.com

880
13
5
5
2

Mixed
Mixed
Mixed
Mostly
Low

RIGHT
RIGHT-CENTER
RIGHT-CENTER
RIGHT
FAR RIGHT

Table 3: Top-5 domains shared in X by coordinated accounts.
Columns represent, from left to right: domain, the number
of shares among coordinated accounts, and the factuality
and political leaning scores based on MBFC.

Both RT.com and Ruptly.tv have previously been accused of orchestrating campaigns to influence U.S. Elections via social media11 .
Additionally, this CoIA promotes a far-right website (thegatewaypundit.com) and an extremist-friendly video platform (odysee.com),
suggesting ties to fringe ideas. A manual review of these Telegram
channels, including their profile descriptions (see Table D.3 in the
Appendix) and shared messages (see Table D.7 in the Appendix),
reveals a strong prevalence of content and accounts promoting
conspiracy theories, particularly those related to COVID vaccines,
5G, and alternative news media.
X/Twitter: We identified a network of 19 coordinated accounts
predominantly promoting content from right-leaning domains, as
listed in Table 3. A manual review of this X CoIA reveals that many
of these coordinated accounts share similar profile descriptions,
reflecting narratives tied to religious and conservative principles
(see Table D.4 in the Appendix). Additionally, an analysis of the
messages (see Table D.8 in the Appendix) shows a strong presence
of politically partisan content, predominantly aligned with rightleaning ideologies.
Facebook: On Facebook, no well-known media outlets dominate the shared content. However, the most shared domain is a
partisan news outlet, as suggested by the semantics of its title:
gorightnews.com. Additionally, there is a direct connection to a
public activist known for political campaigns12 and their website:
peterboykin.com. These campaigns and related Facebook accounts
primarily focus on the “Gays for Trump” movement, an American LGBTQ organization that advocates for U.S. President Donald
11 www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/facebook-blocks-russia-backed-

accounts-other-sites-keep-churning-out-n1242683
10 mediabiasfactcheck.com/

12 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Boykin

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

Trump13 . The top-engagement messages (see Table D.9 in the Appendix) and bios (see Table D.5 in the Appendix) indicate strong
support for right-leaning ideologies.
5.1.2 Cross-Platform Coordination. The analysis of the cross-platform
network reveals distinct patterns. The unified cross-platform network, displayed in Fig. 1, highlights a giant component connecting
coordinated accounts from both Telegram and X, while the Facebook coordination network remains largely disconnected. A few
noteworthy observations:
First, we observe that most cross-platform connections occur
between X accounts and Telegram channels. Examining the biography descriptions of the top users by degree (see Table D.10 in the
Appendix), we note a prominent presence of non-mainstream news
outlets and conspiracy theories, such as the flat earth one.
Second, examining bridge nodes between the Telegram-coordinated
cluster and the cross-platform giant component, we find highly influential channels with up to 24,000 subscribers. These channels
often feature bios referencing free speech and religion, such as:
• The FIGHT for FREEDOM - :Aron TRUTH Social
• Q Reee-searchers Watchers
• ‘Arise and shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the
LORD rises upon you.’ Isa. 60:1 WE RISE beyond the challenges
of yesterday to become better stewards of tomorrow!
Similarly, the bridge node between the X-coordinated cluster and
the cross-platform giant component is a highly influential account
with 32,000 followers. The bio reads: “NO DM’S. Beautiful disaster.
Self-proclaimed arbiter of great ideas. Here to annoy the dumb asses.
NO LISTS!! #Imvotingforafelon #animallover”, indicating a strong
partisan flavor.
Finally, the largest component of the cross-platform coordination
network is dominated by a mix of Telegram and X accounts promoting domains such as magapac.com, QAnon-related narratives
(e.g., “WWG1WGA”14 ), and accounts with partisan bios like:
• We The Ultra Patriots is made up of patriotic Americans
dedicated to exposing crimes against humanity, false flags,
lies, and corruption. We The Ultra Patriots are...
A closer look at the top shared domains within the coordinated
network (see Table 4) reveals that most are partisan, including
truthsocial.com, an alternative non-mainstream social media
platform15 . Additionally, six of the shared domains are Russian stateaffiliated websites16 , including ruptly.tv (2,117 shares), rbc (8
shares), gazeta (7 shares), ruptly.video (2 shares), tv5 (1 share),
and mil (1 share), further suggesting potential Russian information
operations to interfere with the election discourse. Notably, coordinated actors, just 1% of observed Telegram accounts, shared over
2,000 messages linking to these media outlets—nearly 50% of all
links—demonstrating their outsized role in content amplification
and none of these accounts is linked to any media organization.
Examining the posts and messages with the highest engagement
(see Table D.10 in the Appendix), we observe the prevalence of
ultra-MAGA narratives, conservative religious themes, and environmental news.
13 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gays_for_Trump
14 en.wiktionary.org/wiki/WWG1WGA
15 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Truth_Social
16 github.com/chan0park/VoynaSlov/tree/master

Domain

Shares

Factuality

Leaning

thegatewaypundit.com
zerohedge.com
truthsocial.com
nypost.com
theepochtimes.com

23,513
8,331
7,800
6,797
6,241

Very Low
Low
NA
Mixed
Mixed

EXTREME RIGHT
RIGHT CONSPIRACY
NA
RIGHT-CENTER
RIGHT

Table 4: Top domains shared by cross-platform coordinated
accounts. Columns represent, from left to right: domain,
the number of shares among coordinated accounts, and the
factuality and political leaning scores based on MBFC.

5.2

Detecting CoIA for Content Amplification
(RQ2)

In this section, we present our findings on the specific topics amplified by coordinated users within content amplification campaigns.
Following the method in §4.1.2, we extract the Text Similarity Network and identify a seed set of coordinated users. We then apply
BERTopic, as described in §4.2.1, to identify themes these users aim
to promote and compare them to themes that emerge organically
on each platform. For each platform, we report the top-10 most
prevalent topics within the coordinated cohort and compare their
prevalence to that within the organic population. This approach
highlights themes promoted by coordinated users, with large differences indicating topics characteristic of coordinated activity. In the
remainder of this section, we detail our findings on coordinationdriven content amplification across the three platforms.
Telegram: Based on the significantly high similarity of their
shared content, we identified 57 coordinated Telegram channels.
Among these channels, public health is a prominent topic of discussion, as can be seen in Figure 2a, with skepticism around the COVID19 vaccine emerging as the most frequently discussed theme. Additionally, many messages promote alternative medicine, and there
is notable discussion surrounding a conspiracy theory related to
bird flu vaccination. Telegram’s coordinated channels also focus
on strictly political discussions, particularly on the U.S. Presidential debate, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and Donald Trump’s legal
issues. Interestingly, we observe discourse around immigration issues in Ireland, which appears to be echoed by accounts associated
with the MAGA movement. Notably, three out of the ten topics
involve conspiracy theories related to flat-earth beliefs, bird flu, and
antisemitism (see Table E.12 in the Appendix).
We also assess the presence of QAnon-related keywords in content shared by both coordinated and organic channels. Approximately 1.66% of content from coordinated users contains at least
one QAnon-related keyword, compared to only 0.12% of content
from the organic population. This substantial difference is evident
in Table 5, where we list the top five keywords present in the coordinated group, also compared to keywords shared by organic
channels. Although the 57 coordinated channels make up only
0.36% of the total number of Telegram channels in our dataset, they
show a marked prominence, both in absolute and relative terms,
in sharing QAnon-related keywords compared to organic channels. These findings indicate a propensity for Telegram CoIAs to
disseminate conspiracies.

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

0

1
2
Prevalence (%)

3

Topics

Topics

Organic Users
Coordinated Users

rfk
debate
covid-vaccine
border-security
bowman-lattimer
epstein-files
student-loan
hunter-biden
black-against-biden
oil-reserve

0

(a) Telegram

Organic Users
Coordinated Users
1
2
Prevalence (%)

late-show
against-trump
barron-trump-rnc
2020-election-acceptance
trump-trial-dayoff
jacked-up-biden
trump-classified-documents
rfk
coulter-ramaswamy
trump-falsifying-records
bannon-sentence

Topics

Twitter

Telegram

vaccine-skepticism
holistic-health
presidential-debate
flat-earth-conspiracy
sinn-féin
trump-trial
bible-citations
bird-flu-conspiracy
ukraine-russia
antisemitic-conspiracy

3

(b) X

0

Facebook

Organic Users
Coordinated Users
5
10
Prevalence (%)

15

(c) Facebook

Figure 2: Content analysis of coordinated accounts on Telegram, X, and Facebook. We report the top-10 most recurring topics
and compare their prevalence against the organic discourse.
Keyword
wwg1wga
plandemic
adrenochrome
qanon
deepstate

Count / Prevalence
Coordinated

Organic

1260 (0.59%)
619 (0.29%)
448 (0.21%)
260 (0.12%)
193 (0.09%)

520 (0.05%)
102 (0.01%)
118 (0.01%)
107 (0.01%)
87 (0.008%)

Table 5: QAnon-related keywords promoted by coordinated
and organic channels on Telegram. Note that coordinated
channels account for only 0.36% of all Telegram channels.

X/Twitter: On X/Twitter, we identified 221 coordinated users.
Figure 2b displays the top 10 topics shared by these coordinated
accounts, all of which pertain to social, economic, or political issues. The most prevalent topic—and one that differs significantly
from those shared by the organic group—focuses on Independent
candidate Robert F. Kennedy (RFK), with a subset of coordinated
accounts actively promoting his candidacy in the U.S. Presidential
Election. Coordinated users also concentrate on the Democratic
Primary race in Westchester County (labeled as “bowman-lattimer”
in Figure 2b), where the most representative tweets endorse candidate Lattimer. This discussion appears to be framed around the
anti-Israel stance of the incumbent, Rep. Jamaal Bowman. The remaining topics revolve around polarizing issues such as COVID-19
vaccines, U.S. border security, and various scandals, including the
Epstein files and Hunter Biden. Also, these users discuss perceived
opposition within the Black community to President Biden, critiques of the student loan forgiveness policy, and concerns over
the Biden administration’s sale of oil reserves. It should be noted
that the most representative tweets for each topic (as identified
by BERTopic) were manually reviewed by three authors of this
paper, who found no evidence of conspiratorial content (see Table
E.11 in the Appendix). The most frequent QAnon-related keyword,
“qanon,” appeared only five times.
Facebook: We identify 16 coordinated users in the Facebook
discourse. As shown in Figure 2c, most topics promoted by these

users are left-leaning. A manual inspection reveals that all 16 accounts are associated with The Young Turks network17 , which
MBFC classifies as left-leaning18 . Apart from a news item quoting
a GOP representative accusing Biden of using “supplements” (i.e.,
“jacked-up Biden”), we found no trace of misleading, conspiratorial,
or inflammatory content.

5.3

Generated Engagement and AIGC (RQ3)

To comprehensively assess the impact of coordination strategies
in the 2024 U.S. Election online debate, we analyze the level of engagement generated by coordinated actors and the extent of their
reliance on AI-generated content (AIGC). To maintain a consistent definition of engagement across platforms, we define it as the
sum of likes, replies, quotes, and retweets for X/Twitter, likes, comments, and shares for Facebook, and views, forwards, and replies
for Telegram.
For each platform, we begin by merging the sets of coordinated
actors identified through co-URL sharing (web domain promotion)
and content similarity patterns (content amplification). We observe
that the overlap between these two sets of coordinated users is modest, with overlap rates of 1.3%, 0.5%, and 0% for Telegram, Twitter,
and Facebook, respectively. This aligns with previous findings showing that different coordination strategies are employed to push diverse agendas through distinct coordinated networks [43, 50]. This
observation supports our decision to apply two complementary
detection strategies. Aggregating coordinated actors from distinct
CoIA networks, we identify 233 coordinated actors on Telegram,
764 on X, and 25 on Facebook. The proportion of accounts engaged
in CoIA is 1.49% on Telegram, 0.43% on X, and 0.41% on Facebook,
consistent with prior research that employed conservative thresholds to detect coordinated activity [43, 59].
Figure 3 shows the distribution of engagement generated by coordinated and organic users across all platforms. On Telegram, more
than half of the content generated by organic accounts receives
no engagement, while the median engagement for coordinated
accounts is 297—highlighting the ability of coordinated users to
consistently amplify their content. On Twitter/X, the engagement
distribution is more similar across the two groups, with coordinated
users generating slightly more engagement, as suggested by the
17 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Young_Turks
18 mediabiasfactcheck.com/the-young-turks/

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

101

103

105

Generated Engagement

107

Twitter
Organic Users
Coordinated Users

100

101

102

103

104

105

Generated Engagement

106

1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0

Facebook
Organic Users
Coordinated Users

ECDF

ECDF

Organic Users
Coordinated Users

1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0

ECDF

Telegram

1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0

100

101

102

103

104

Generated Engagement

105

AIGC Prevalence (%)

Figure 3: Empirical Cumulative Distribution of total engagement, defined as the sum of user interactions across platforms,
including reactions, comments, shares, replies, and views—generated by coordinated and organic users.

6
4
2
0

Organic
UsersUsers
Coordinated
Telegram

Twitter

Platform

Facebook

Figure 4: AIGC distribution across the three platforms, highlighting the prevalence of AI-generated posts among coordinated and organic users.

organic curve consistently lying above the coordinated one. On
Facebook, the median engagement of coordinated users (317) substantially exceeds that of organic users (89). This may result from
reciprocal interactions within the coordinated cohort, a strategic
effort by coordinated users to stimulate organic engagement, or
a combination of both. In contrast, many organic users may have
little or no interest in maximizing engagement.
We also assess the prevalence of AIGC that was shared across
the three platforms by both coordinated and organic users. These
results are shown in Figure 4. Facebook is the social media platform
where most AIGC is produced by both coordinated and organic
accounts. While the AIGC prevalence is limited, we observe a striking difference in the activity between coordinated and organic
users on Telegram and Facebook, whereas it is quite balanced on X.
Interestingly, AI-generated content is predominantly diffused by coordinated actors on Telegram, while an opposite trend is observed
on Facebook.

6

Conclusions

This paper introduces a novel, network-based framework for detecting coordinated inauthentic activity (CoIA) across multiple social
media platforms. Unlike most traditional methods that focus on
isolated platform-specific analyses, our approach emphasizes crossplatform behaviors by constructing similarity networks that capture
community-wide patterns of content sharing. By prioritizing both

intra- and cross-platform connections, we are able to detect subtle yet significant coordination signals that remain hidden when
platforms are analyzed in isolation.
Our unsupervised, network-based methodology allows us to
identify a range of influence campaigns aimed at directing traffic toward specific narratives and domains. These campaigns frequently
promote content that is partisan, low-credibility, and conspiratorial in nature. The model not only detects domestic actors but
also reveals the systematic promotion of foreign-affiliated media,
particularly Russian state-sponsored outlets, across platforms like
Telegram and X. This evidence points to a coordinated effort to
amplify certain messages and domains across distinct platforms
underscoring the necessity of a unified, cross-platform approach to
tackle such influence operations [24].
Limitations. While our study demonstrates substantial strengths,
a few considerations remain. First, although the model leverages
data from Telegram, Facebook, and X, the specific timeframe under
observation and platform-specific mechanisms may influence the
broader applicability of our model and the generalizability of our
findings to other scenarios and social media networks. Second, combining similarity networks with differing similarity distributions
across platforms may introduce biases in the overall detection of
coordination, potentially favoring certain platforms. Finally, this
work does not examine multimedia content, thereby overlooking
coordination across different data modalities and the potential use
of generative AI techniques for producing synthetic media.
Future work should address these limitations by incorporating
sophisticated statistical models to assess the significance of coordination patterns, thereby providing a more robust and statistically
sound methodology to ensure that identified coordination signals
are not merely artifacts of underlying data distributions. Expanding
the framework to encompass additional platforms, data modalities,
and a broader range of behavioral signals would further strengthen
its capability to detect diverse forms of coordination.

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

References
[1] Aseel Addawood, Adam Badawy, Kristina Lerman, and Emilio Ferrara. 2019.
Linguistic cues to deception: Identifying political trolls on social media. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social media, Vol. 13.
15–25. (Cited on 2)
[2] Meysam Alizadeh, Jacob N Shapiro, Cody Buntain, and Joshua A Tucker. 2020.
Content-based features predict social media influence operations. Science advances 6, 30 (2020), eabb5824. (Cited on 2)
[3] Adam Badawy, Aseel Addawood, Kristina Lerman, and Emilio Ferrara. 2019.
Characterizing the 2016 Russian IRA influence campaign. Social Network Analysis
and Mining 9 (2019), 1–11. (Cited on 2, 4)
[4] Adam Badawy, Emilio Ferrara, and Kristina Lerman. 2018. Analyzing the digital
traces of political manipulation: The 2016 Russian interference Twitter campaign.
In 2018 IEEE/ACM international conference on advances in social networks analysis
and mining (ASONAM). IEEE, 258–265. (Cited on 2)
[5] Ashwin Balasubramanian, Vito Zou, Hitesh Narayana, Christina You, Luca Luceri,
and Emilio Ferrara. 2024. A public dataset tracking social media discourse about
the 2024 us presidential election on twitter/x. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00376
(2024). (Cited on 2, 10)
[6] Anees Baqir, Alessandro Galeazzi, and Fabiana Zollo. 2024. News and misinformation consumption: A temporal comparison across European countries. Plos
one 19, 5 (2024), e0302473. (Cited on 1)
[7] Alessandro Bessi and Emilio Ferrara. 2016. Social bots distort the 2016 US
Presidential election online discussion. First monday 21, 11-7 (2016). (Cited on 1,
2)
[8] Ahana Biswas, Yu-Ru Lin, Yuehong Cassandra Tai, and Bruce A Desmarais. 2024.
Political elites in the attention economy: Visibility over civility and credibility?
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.16014 (2024). (Cited on 5)
[9] Leonardo Blas, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara. 2024. Unearthing a Billion
Telegram Posts about the 2024 US Presidential Election: Development of a Public
Dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.23638 (2024). (Cited on 2, 10)
[10] Lorenzo Cima, Lorenzo Mannocci, Marco Avvenuti, Maurizio Tesconi, and Stefano Cresci. 2024. Coordinated behavior in information operations on Twitter.
IEEE Access (2024). (Cited on 1)
[11] Stefano Cresci, Roberto Di Pietro, Marinella Petrocchi, Angelo Spognardi, and
Maurizio Tesconi. 2016. DNA-inspired online behavioral modeling and its application to spambot detection. IEEE Intelligent Systems 31, 5 (2016), 58–64. (Cited
on 2)
[12] Jacob Davey and Julia Ebner. 2019. The Great Replacement’: The violent consequences of mainstreamed extremism. Institute for Strategic Dialogue 7 (2019),
1–36. (Cited on 1)
[13] Alphaeus Dmonte, Marcos Zampieri, Kevin Lybarger, and Massimiliano Albanese.
2024. Classifying Human-Generated and AI-Generated Election Claims in Social
Media. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16116 (2024). (Cited on 4, 10)
[14] Election Integrity Partnership. 2020. The Long Fuse: Misinformation and the
2020 Election. https://purl.stanford.edu/tr171zs0069 (Cited on 1, 2)
[15] Fatima Ezzeddine, Luca Luceri, Omran Ayoub, Ihab Sbeity, G Nogara, Emilio
Ferrara, and Silvia Giordano. 2023. Exposing influence campaigns in the age of
LLMs: a behavioral-based AI approach to detecting state-sponsored trolls. EPJ
Data Science 12, 46 (2023). (Cited on 2)
[16] Hanif Fakhrurroja, Muhammad Nashir Atmaja, Joe Nathan CG Panjaitan, Andry
Alamsyah, and Aris Munandar. 2019. Crisis Communication on Twitter: a social
network analysis of christchurch terrorist attack in 2019. In 2019 International
Conference on ICT for Smart Society (ICISS), Vol. 7. IEEE, 1–6. (Cited on 1)
[17] Emilio Ferrara. 2017. Disinformation and social bot operations in the run up to
the 2017 French presidential election. First Monday (2017). (Cited on 1)
[18] Emilio Ferrara. 2024. Charting the Landscape of Nefarious Uses of Generative Artificial Intelligence for Online Election Interference. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.01862 (2024). (Cited on 10)
[19] Emilio Ferrara. 2024. GenAI against humanity: Nefarious applications of generative artificial intelligence and large language models. Journal of Computational
Social Science (2024), 1–21. (Cited on 4)
[20] Emilio Ferrara. 2024. What Are The Risks of Living in a GenAI Synthetic Reality?
Available at SSRN 4883399 (2024). (Cited on 10)
[21] Emilio Ferrara, Herbert Chang, Emily Chen, Goran Muric, and Jaimin Patel. 2020.
Characterizing social media manipulation in the 2020 US presidential election.
First Monday (2020). (Cited on 1, 2)
[22] Deen Freelon, Charlton D McIlwain, and Meredith Clark. 2016. Beyond the
hashtags:# Ferguson,# Blacklivesmatter, and the online struggle for offline justice.
Center for Media & Social Impact, American University, Forthcoming (2016). (Cited
on 1)
[23] Nicholas A Gabriel, David A Broniatowski, and Neil F Johnson. 2023. Inductive
detection of influence operations via graph learning. Scientific Reports 13, 1
(2023), 22571. (Cited on 3)
[24] Valerio La Gatta, Luca Luceri, Francesco Fabbri, and Emilio Ferrara. 2023. The
interconnected nature of online harm and moderation: investigating the crossplatform spread of harmful content between youtube and Twitter. In Proceedings
of the 34th ACM conference on hypertext and social media. 1–10. (Cited on 1, 2, 8)

[25] Fabio Giglietto, Nicola Righetti, and Giada Marino. 2020. Detecting Coordinated
Link Sharing Behavior on Facebook during the Italian Coronavirus Outbreak.
AoIR Selected Papers of Internet Research (2020). (Cited on 1)
[26] Maarten Grootendorst. 2022. BERTopic: Neural topic modeling with a class-based
TF-IDF procedure. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.05794 (2022). (Cited on 4)
[27] Philip N Howard and Muzammil M Hussain. 2013. Democracy’s fourth wave?:
digital media and the Arab Spring. Oxford University Press. (Cited on 1)
[28] Philip N Howard, Samuel Woolley, and Ryan Calo. 2018. Algorithms, bots, and
political communication in the US 2016 election: The challenge of automated political communication for election law and administration. Journal of information
technology & politics 15, 2 (2018), 81–93. (Cited on 1)
[29] Kristina Hristakieva, Stefano Cresci, Giovanni Da San Martino, Mauro Conti,
and Preslav Nakov. 2022. The spread of propaganda by coordinated communities
on social media. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Web Science Conference 2022.
191–201. (Cited on 1)
[30] Kristina Hristakieva, Stefano Cresci, Giovanni Da San Martino, Mauro Conti, and
Preslav Nakov. 2022. The Spread of Propaganda by Coordinated Communities
on Social Media. In 14th ACM Web Science Conference 2022. ACM. doi:10.1145/
3501247.3531543 (Cited on 2)
[31] Tuja Khaund, Baris Kirdemir, Nitin Agarwal, Huan Liu, and Fred Morstatter.
2021. Social bots and their coordination during online campaigns: a survey. IEEE
Transactions on Computational Social Systems 9, 2 (2021), 530–545. (Cited on 1)
[32] Ofra Klein and Jasper Muis. 2019. Online discontent: Comparing Western European far-right groups on Facebook. European societies 21, 4 (2019), 540–562.
(Cited on 1)
[33] Ugur Kursuncu, Hemant Purohit, Nitin Agarwal, and Amit Sheth. 2021. When
the bad is good and the good is bad: understanding cyber social health through
online behavioral change. IEEE Internet Computing 25, 1 (2021), 6–11. (Cited on
1)
[34] Jana Lasser, Segun Taofeek Aroyehun, Almog Simchon, Fabio Carrella, David
Garcia, and Stephan Lewandowsky. 2022. Social media sharing of low-quality
news sources by political elites. PNAS nexus 1, 4 (2022), pgac186. (Cited on 3)
[35] Edoardo Loru, Matteo Cinelli, Maurizio Tesconi, and Walter Quattrociocchi. 2024.
The influence of coordinated behavior on toxicity. Online Social Networks and
Media 43 (2024), 100289. (Cited on 1)
[36] Alessandro Lovari. 2020. Spreading (dis) trust: Covid-19 misinformation and
government intervention in Italy. Media and Communication 8, 2 (2020), 458–461.
(Cited on 1)
[37] Luca Luceri, Eric Boniardi, and Emilio Ferrara. 2024. Leveraging Large Language
Models to Detect Influence Campaigns on Social Media. In Companion Proceedings
of the ACM on Web Conference 2024. 1459–1467. (Cited on 2)
[38] Luca Luceri, Felipe Cardoso, and Silvia Giordano. 2021. Down the bot hole:
Actionable insights from a one-year analysis of bot activity on Twitter. First
Monday (2021). (Cited on 1)
[39] Luca Luceri, Stefano Cresci, and Silvia Giordano. 2021. Social media against
society. The Internet and the 2020 Campaign 1 (2021). (Cited on 1, 2)
[40] Luca Luceri, Ashok Deb, Adam Badawy, and Emilio Ferrara. 2019. Red bots do
it better: Comparative analysis of social bot partisan behavior. In Companion
proceedings of the 2019 world wide web conference. 1007–1012. (Cited on 2)
[41] Luca Luceri, Ashok Deb, Silvia Giordano, and Emilio Ferrara. 2019. Evolution of
bot and human behavior during elections. First Monday (2019). (Cited on 1)
[42] Luca Luceri, Silvia Giordano, and Emilio Ferrara. 2020. Detecting troll behavior
via inverse reinforcement learning: A case study of russian trolls in the 2016 us
election. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social
media, Vol. 14. 417–427. (Cited on 2)
[43] Luca Luceri, Valeria Pantè, Keith Burghardt, and Emilio Ferrara. 2024. Unmasking
the web of deceit: Uncovering coordinated activity to expose information operations on twitter. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2024. 2530–2541.
(Cited on 1, 2, 3, 4, 7)
[44] Thomas Magelinski, Lynnette Ng, and Kathleen Carley. 2022. A synchronized
action framework for detection of coordination on social media. Journal of Online
Trust and Safety 1, 2 (2022).
[45] Lorenzo Mannocci, Michele Mazza, Anna Monreale, Maurizio Tesconi, and Stefano Cresci. 2024. Detection and characterization of coordinated online behavior:
A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.01257 (2024). (Cited on 2, 4)
[46] Meta. 2024. Meta’s threat disruptions. https://transparency.meta.com/en-gb/
metasecurity/threat-reporting/ Accessed: 2025-01-15. (Cited on 1)
[47] Marco Minici, Federico Cinus, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara. 2024. Uncovering
coordinated cross-platform information operations: Threatening the integrity of
the 2024 US presidential election. First Monday (2024). (Cited on 3, 10)
[48] Vanessa Molter and Renee DiResta. 2020. Pandemics & propaganda: How Chinese
state media creates and propagates CCP coronavirus narratives. Harvard Kennedy
School Misinformation Review 1, 3 (2020). (Cited on 1)
[49] Monica Murero. 2023. Coordinated inauthentic behavior: An innovative manipulation tactic to amplify COVID-19 anti-vaccine communication outreach via
social media. Frontiers in Sociology 8 (2023), 1141416. (Cited on 1)
[50] Lynnette Hui Xian Ng and Kathleen M Carley. 2022. Online coordination: methods and comparative case studies of coordinated groups across four events in

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

the united states. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Web Science Conference 2022.
12–21. (Cited on 7)
[51] Lynnette Hui Xian Ng, Iain J Cruickshank, and Kathleen M Carley. 2022. Crossplatform information spread during the January 6th capitol riots. Social Network
Analysis and Mining 12, 1 (2022), 133. (Cited on 2)
[52] Erik C Nisbet and Olga Kamenchuk. 2019. The psychology of state-sponsored
disinformation campaigns and implications for public diplomacy. The Hague
Journal of Diplomacy 14, 1-2 (2019), 65–82. (Cited on 1)
[53] Leonardo Nizzoli, Serena Tardelli, Marco Avvenuti, Stefano Cresci, and Maurizio
Tesconi. 2021. Coordinated behavior on social media in 2019 UK general election.
In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media,
Vol. 15. 443–454. (Cited on 2)
[54] Gianluca Nogara, Francesco Pierri, Stefano Cresci, Luca Luceri, and Silvia Giordano. 2024. Misinformation and Polarization around COVID-19 vaccines in
France, Germany, and Italy. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM Web Science Conference. 119–128. (Cited on 1)
[55] Alexander C Nwala, Alessandro Flammini, and Filippo Menczer. 2023. A language
framework for modeling social media account behavior. EPJ Data Science 12, 1
(2023), 33. (Cited on 2)
[56] Sarah Oates and John Gray. 2019. # Kremlin: Using hashtags to analyze Russian
disinformation strategy and dissemination on twitter. Available at SSRN 3445180
(2019). (Cited on 1)
[57] Diogo Pacheco. 2024. Bots, Elections, and Controversies: Twitter Insights from
Brazil’s Polarised Elections. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2024.
2651–2659. (Cited on 1)
[58] Diogo Pacheco, Alessandro Flammini, and Filippo Menczer. 2020. Unveiling
Coordinated Groups Behind White Helmets Disinformation. In Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference 2020. ACM. doi:10.1145/3366424.3385775 (Cited
on 2, 4)
[59] Diogo Pacheco, Pik-Mai Hui, Christopher Torres-Lugo, Bao Tran Truong,
Alessandro Flammini, and Filippo Menczer. 2021. Uncovering coordinated networks on social media: methods and case studies. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social media, Vol. 15. 455–466. (Cited on 1, 2,
3, 4, 7)
[60] Chan Young Park, Julia Mendelsohn, Anjalie Field, and Yulia Tsvetkov. 2022.
Challenges and Opportunities in Information Manipulation Detection: An Examination of Wartime Russian Media. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: EMNLP 2022. 5209–5235. (Cited on 4)
[61] Concha Pérez-Curiel. 2020. Trend towards extreme right-wing populism on
Twitter. An analysis of the influence on leaders, media and users. Communication
& Society (2020), 175–192. (Cited on 1)
[62] Francesco Pierri, Luca Luceri, Nikhil Jindal, and Emilio Ferrara. 2023. Propaganda
and misinformation on Facebook and Twitter during the Russian invasion of
Ukraine. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM web science conference 2023. 65–74. (Cited
on 4)
[63] Gabriela Pinto, Charles Bickham, Tanishq Salkar, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara.
2024. Tracking the 2024 US Presidential Election Chatter on Tiktok: A Public
Multimodal Dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01471 (2024). (Cited on 10)
[64] Ozgur Can Seckin, Manita Pote, Alexander Nwala, Lake Yin, Luca Luceri, Alessandro Flammini, and Filippo Menczer. 2024. Labeled Datasets for Research on
Information Operations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.10609 (2024). (Cited on 12)
[65] Karishma Sharma, Emilio Ferrara, and Yan Liu. 2022. Characterizing online
engagement with disinformation and conspiracies in the 2020 US presidential
election. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web and social
media, Vol. 16. 908–919. (Cited on 2, 4)
[66] Serena Tardelli, Leonardo Nizzoli, Marco Avvenuti, Stefano Cresci, and Maurizio Tesconi. 2024. Multifaceted online coordinated behavior in the 2020 US
presidential election. EPJ Data Science 13, 1 (2024), 33. (Cited on 1)
[67] Serena Tardelli, Leonardo Nizzoli, Maurizio Tesconi, Mauro Conti, Preslav Nakov,
Giovanni Da San Martino, and Stefano Cresci. 2024. Temporal dynamics of
coordinated online behavior: Stability, archetypes, and influence. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences 121, 20 (2024), e2307038121. (Cited on 2)
[68] TikTok. 2024. Strengthening our approach to countering influence attempts. https://newsroom.tiktok.com/en-us/strengthening-our-approach-tocountering-influence-attempts Accessed: 2025-01-15. (Cited on 1)
[69] Padinjaredath Suresh Vishnuprasad, Gianluca Nogara, Felipe Cardoso, Stefano
Cresci, Silvia Giordano, and Luca Luceri. 2024. Tracking fringe and coordinated
activity on Twitter leading up to the US Capitol attack. In Proceedings of the
international AAAI conference on web and social media, Vol. 18. 1557–1570. (Cited
on 1, 2, 3, 4)
[70] Emily L Wang, Luca Luceri, Francesco Pierri, and Emilio Ferrara. 2023. Identifying and characterizing behavioral classes of radicalization within the qanon
conspiracy on Twitter. In Proceedings of the international AAAI conference on web
and social media, Vol. 17. 890–901. (Cited on 4)
[71] Derek Weber and Frank Neumann. 2021. Amplifying influence through coordinated behaviour in social networks. Social Network Analysis and Mining 11, 1

(2021), 111. (Cited on 1)
[72] Tom Wilson, Kaitlyn Zhou, and Kate Starbird. 2018. Assembling strategic narratives: Information operations as collaborative work within an online community.
Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 2, CSCW (2018), 1–26.
(Cited on 1)
[73] Samuel Woolley and Philip Howard. 2017. Computational propaganda worldwide:
Executive summary. (2017). (Cited on 1)
[74] Kai-Cheng Yang, Onur Varol, Clayton A. Davis, Emilio Ferrara, Alessandro Flammini, and Filippo Menczer. 2019. Arming the public with artificial intelligence to
counter social bots. Human Behavior and Emerging Technologies 1, 1 (Jan 2019),
48–61. doi:10.1002/hbe2.115 (Cited on 2)
[75] YouTube. 2024. How YouTube responsibly supports elections and civic
engagement. https://www.youtube.com/intl/en_mt/howyoutubeworks/ourcommitments/supporting-political-integrity/ Accessed: 2025-01-15. (Cited on 1)
[76] Savvas Zannettou, Tristan Caulfield, Barry Bradlyn, Emiliano De Cristofaro,
Gianluca Stringhini, and Jeremy Blackburn. 2020. Characterizing the use of
images in state-sponsored information warfare operations by Russian trolls on
Twitter. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social
Media, Vol. 14. 774–785. (Cited on 2)
[77] Savvas Zannettou, Tristan Caulfield, Emiliano De Cristofaro, Michael Sirivianos,
Gianluca Stringhini, and Jeremy Blackburn. 2019. Disinformation warfare: Understanding state-sponsored trolls on Twitter and their influence on the web. In
Companion proceedings of the 2019 world wide web conference. 218–226. (Cited
on 2)
[78] Savvas Zannettou, Tristan Caulfield, William Setzer, Michael Sirivianos, Gianluca Stringhini, and Jeremy Blackburn. 2019. Who let the trolls out? towards
understanding state-sponsored trolls. In Proceedings of the 10th acm conference
on web science. 353–362. (Cited on 2)

About the Team
The 2024 Election Integrity Initiative is led by Emilio Ferrara and
Luca Luceri and carried out by a collective of USC students and
volunteers whose contributions are instrumental to enable these
studies. The authors are indebted to Srilatha Dama and Zhengan
Pao for their help in bootstrapping this data collection. The authors
are also grateful to the following HUMANS Lab’s members for their
tireless efforts on this project: Ashwin Balasubramanian, Leonardo
Blas, Charles ’Duke’ Bickham, Keith Burghardt, Sneha Chawan,
Vishal Reddy Chintham, Eun Cheol Choi, Priyanka Dey, Isabel
Epistelomogi, Saborni Kundu, Grace Li, Richard Peng, Gabriela
Pinto, Jinhu Qi, Ameen Qureshi, Tanishq Salkar, Kashish Atit Shah,
Reuben Varghese, Siyi Zhou. Previous memos: [5, 9, 18, 20, 47, 63].

A

Dataset Collection

Keywords. Joe Biden, Donald Trump, 2024 US Elections, US Elections, 2024 Elections, 2024 Presidential Elections, Biden, Joe Biden,
Joseph Biden, Biden2024, Donald Trump, Trump2024, trumpsupporters, trumptrain, republicansoftiktok, conservative, MAGA, KAG,
GOP, CPAC, Nikki Haley, Ron DeSantis , RNC, democratsoftiktok,
thedemocrats, DNC, Kamala Harris, Marianne Williamson, Dean
Phillips, williamson2024, phillips2024, Democratic party, Republican party, Third Party, Green Party, Independent Party, No Labels,
RFK Jr, Roberty F. Kennedy Jr. , Jill Stein, Cornel West, ultramaga, voteblue2024, letsgobrandon, bidenharris2024, makeamericagreatagain, Vivek Ramaswamy, JD Vance, Assassination, Tim Walz,
WWG1WGA.
Additional dataset statistics. We present the distribution of the
number of posts per user and post’s length for each platform.

B

AI Detection Classifier Validation

We utilized the AI-generated text detection classifier from [13], originally trained to identify AI-generated content in tweets. To extend
the applicability of this classifier to other platforms, we constructed

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

104
103
Frequency

Number of User

104

102

103

101
100
0

200

400

600
800
Number of Messages

1000

1200

1400

0

1000

(a) Facebook posts

2000
3000
Message Length (characters)

4000

5000

(b) Facebook characters
107
106
105

103
Frequency

Number of Channel

104

102

104
103
102

101

101
100

100
0

100000

200000
300000
Number of Messages

400000

500000

0

2000

4000
6000
8000
10000
Message Length (characters)

(c) Telegram posts

12000

(d) X characters

106

107

106

104
Frequency

Number of User

105

103
102
101

105

104

100
0

500

1000

1500 2000 2500
Number of Messages

3000

3500

0

1000

2000
3000
Message Length (characters)

(e) X posts
(f) Telegram characters
Table A.1: Distributions of posts and characters across platforms.

4000

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

an external validation set using diverse, older datasets. Specifically, we built upon four datasets: Twitter-201019 , Facebook20 ,
and Telegram.
From each of these datasets, we sampled 500 texts ranging in
length from 125 to 1000 characters. Given the release years of
these datasets, we assume that all texts are non-AI generated. To
create the AI-generated class, we used GPT-4o21 and Llama 3.1
3B Instruct22 , prompting them to generate new texts with similar
topics and lengths as the original non-AI texts. We performed this
generation for each non-AI text and sampled 250 AI-generated texts
from GPT and 250 from Llama.
Thus, for each platform, the validation dataset consists of 500
non-AI generated texts paired with 500 AI-generated texts: 250 from
GPT and 250 from Llama, with both AI-generated sets matching
the original texts in topic and length.
To further enhance the generalizability of the validation dataset,
we incorporated non-AI generated content from additional sources:
Reddit comments23 , IMDB reviews24 , movies corpus25 , and Yelp
201326 . AI-generated content for these datasets was sourced from
tweetHunter27 and GPT, which was prompted to generate texts
on specific topics such as American football, climate change, the
Soccer World Cup, the Gaza conflict, U.S. politics, and vaccines.
The validation results are displayed in Table B.2.
Platform
General

Precision
0.9064

Recall
0.5927

Facebook
X/Twitter
Telegram

0.8723
0.8935
0.9598

0.6686
0.5613
0.5956

Reddit
Additional set

0.895
0.9697

0.5368
0.5

Table B.2: Precision and Recall for each platform

C

Grid Search for Similarity and Centrality
Thresholds

To identify coordinated accounts in the co-URL similarity network,
we filter edges and nodes based on cosine similarity and eigenvector
centrality. Two nodes are connected if they co-share URLs, and the
strength of these connections is represented by the cosine similarity
between their TF-IDF vectors across the space of all unique URLs.

We employ two filtering techniques commonly found in the literature: edge filtering, based on cosine similarity, and node filtering,
based on eigenvector centrality. The thresholds for these filters are
determined by the percentiles of the distributions of edge similarity
19 https://archive.org/details/twitter_cikm_2010
20 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sheenabatra/facebook-data
21 https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/
22 https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct
23 https://zissou.infosci.cornell.edu/convokit/datasets/reddit-coarse-discourse-

corpus/
24 https://ai.stanford.edu/~amaas/data/sentiment/
25 https://zissou.infosci.cornell.edu/convokit/datasets/movie-corpus/
26 https://www.yelp.com/dataset/download
27 https://tweethunter.io/

and node centrality. Assuming that coordinated accounts manifest
as dense components in the similarity graph, we use the density
of each connected component as a key indicator of coordination.
To ensure robustness, we adopt a conservative approach, using
the minimum density across all connected components after filtering as a comprehensive quality measure of the graph. Figure C.1
presents the results of our grid search across these parameters. The
x-axis represents the percentile of edge similarity, while the y-axis
corresponds to the percentile of eigenvector centrality. The z-axis
indicates the minimum density of the similarity graph after filtering based on the selected x-y percentiles. For each platform, we
identified the optimal thresholds by observing sharp changes in
minimum density and high overall density values. These threshold
combinations define the coordinated accounts on each platform.
Specifically:
• For Facebook, we selected (50%, 45%) as the minimum density increased from 0.73 and 0.80 to 0.90.
• For X, we chose (85%, 99%), consistent with previous studies,
leading to an increase from 0.74 to 0.99.
• For Telegram, we used (99%, 99%), focusing on a significant
jump from 0.18 to 0.87.
Other threshold combinations were evaluated qualitatively, yielding similar results. More quantitative methods for threshold selection are left for future work.
Performance Evaluation. To validate our methodology, we used
the supervised Information Operations (IO) dataset from [64], which
includes labeled users identified as coordinated inauthentic actors
across 26 IO campaigns, along with a control group of organic
users. Our method achieves high precision (above 0.9) but low
recall (around 0.1), aligning with the framework’s design and the
objectives of our analysis.

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

Bio

Bio

All of the articles and opinions shared here are not the opinions of HVU.
Use your own discernment. All of HVU’s links in one olace
https://linktr.ee/highvibesup Family - Love - Learn

#GayRightNews Bringing You Gay(and other)
News with a Right Leaning View. #GaysGoRight
#GaysForTrump Support Our President #GaysGoRight

All of the articles and opinions shared here are not the opinions of HVU.
Use your own discernment. All of HVU’s links in one olace
https://linktr.ee/highvibesup Family - Love - Learn

This is the OFFICIAL Page of the #GoRight Movement
(due to loss of the previous pages we were forced to create a new page)
This is not the time to abandon the GOP it’s time to #GoRight and
create the Great American Revival of the GOP and America.

Karli Channel The Real Karli and X only KarluskaP is real
everyone else is being sued for using copyright avi artwork
‘’

#GoRight and Join Us on #TheQiew
When Gays Go Right We Make America Great

Please post Tartaria architecture, flat earth

Political organization https://gorightnews.com/

Table D.6: Current bios of top-5 cross-platform coordinated
accounts sorted by degree.

Table D.5: Current bios of top-5 coordinated pages in Facebook sorted by degree.

Bio
CV Lies & 5G Dangers - Discussions
Scammers may try to impersonate Real World News Channel.
Don’t trust any messages you get from them.
They are not us. Block and report them immediately.
Covering News, Military information, across Wiltshire & the
Southwest areas and for connecting people together uk_flag
Credence - Breaking News
Truth. Faith. Freedom.

Table D.3: Current bios of top-5 coordinated channels in Telegram sorted by degree.

Bio
Have integrity. Be Just. Precinct Chairman.
Christian. Pro-Life. Conservative Political Activist. #CruzCrew
NO DM’S. Beautiful disaster.
Self proclaimed arbiter of great ideas.
Here to annoy the dumb asses.
NO LIST!! #Imvotingforafelon #animallover
CHRISTIAN, ULTRA MAGA, PATRIOT, CONSERVATIVE,
2A, FJB, TRUMP WON, TRUMP2016, TRUMP2020, TRUMP2024,
ELON MUSK, YELLOWSTONE, DALLAS COWBOYS
just a opinionated old cowgirl from WY
Traditional work ethic, traditional values
studied spirituality under a minister study 15 years worked 30+years.
I write as I see them, past present and maybe future.
don’t expect you to agree but think

Table D.4: Current bios of top-5 coordinated accounts in X
sorted by degree.

D

Characterization of coordinated users

We report the bios of the top 5 coordinated accounts by degree, at
the time of writing, and the top 5 messages by total engagement
written by coordinated accounts in each platform.

E

Topic Analysis

We report the inferred topics and representative posts in each platform.

F

Characterization of AI Generated Content

Regarding the AI-Generated Content (AIGC) results, we conducted
a qualitative analysis to characterize AIGC across platforms. Specifically, we analyzed the top 20 AIGC posts by popularity from each
platform and used GPT-4 with zero-shot learning to estimate a
partisan score. Our findings show that Telegram has an average
partisan score close to zero, while X and Facebook exhibit higher
scores of 0.5 and 0.4, respectively. This highlights differences among
AIGC diffusion between the three platforms that help to interpret
and characterize the results.

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

Top-5 Messages
"US Secretary of State Antony Blinken Walking the Congressional Office Building Halls Surrounded by Police
’War criminal’, ’genocide secretary’
Protestors reminding him of his complicity in crimes against humanity.
RealWorldNewsChannel RealWorldNewsChat"
"Its sickening, disgusting money laundering MF’s. In a meantime the people of United States are suffering! Can’t afford
basic necessities!!"
"I like how zoinists shout poor me when they get caught out for there evil crimes Normal Jews hate zoinist Jews People
of the world don’t hate Jews People of the world hate zoinists Jews n zoinists in general n what they stand for They
think there the chosen ones and that gives them the rite to kill n genecide inercent people Zoinisium is hated by all
races of the world And has no place for peace in humanity "
"Ukrainians in Galway are being advised to vote for two Nigerians and a Labour candidate to best serve their interests.
’Under no circumstances vote for radicals - Irish Freedom Party, Independent Ireland, The Irish People and all others
who have the slogans ’Ireland for the Irish’.
#ForeignInterference "
"Former CNN Anchor Chris Cuomo Admits to Suffering from a COVID Vaccine Injury
ICYMI: There’s been a major shift in the official narrative.
Follow Vigilant_News "

Table D.7: Top-5 messages by total engagement for coordinated channels in Telegram

Top-5 Posts
"“WE THE PEOPLE” don’t play by your dictator rules. Just answer the damn question, crybaby. White House correspondents fire back after Biden snaps at reporter for refusing to ’play by the rules’"
"If Biden wins there will no more arguing because the will not be anything left to argue about. He’s handing the keys
over to illegals and the new world order. In the end, the joke will be on the democrats. The WHO/WEF hates them too
and knows they’re imbeciles. Everyone knows"
"’Shameful’: GOP lawmaker shreds ’AWOL’ Biden for throwing Jews ’under the bus’ amid anti-Israel protests If this
president, so-called president doesn’t personify evil destruction division of this country, I don’t know what or who
would !"
"Biden DHS docs suggested Trump supporters, military and religious people are likely violent terror threats. HaHaHa!
I guess we also have Santa Claus/Easter bunny over here in training. Give me a break, we are trying to save this
country from the bad guys!"
"DeSantis spox dunks on NYT ’fact-check’ on terrorists entering southern border: ’Awaiting your correction’ They’ve
been entering for last 3 years. Biden admin has no damn idea who is coming in. Even ones they think they know are
using others’ identity"

Table D.8: Top-5 posts by total engagement for coordinated accounts in X

(a) Facebook.

(b) X.

(c) Telegram.

Figure C.1: Thresholds grid search for filtering similarity graph: x-axis edge similarity quantile, y-axis node centrality quantile.
z-axis is the minimum graph density across all connected components of the filtered co-url similarity graph. The green square
corresponds to the selected thresholds.

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

Figure C.2: Thresholds grid search for filtering the Cross-platform similarity graph: x-axis edge similarity quantile, y-axis
node centrality quantile. z-axis is the minimum graph density across all connected components of the filtered co-url similarity
graph. The green square corresponds to the selected thresholds.

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

Top-2 Posts
"Youth Vote Shifts Toward Trump in 2024 Election https://gorightnews.com/youth-vote-shifts-toward-trump-in2024-election/ Maybe the kids are alright... #GoRightNews Recent polls indicate a surprising trend: young voters
are warming to Donald Trump in the 2024 presidential election. The question arises: Are these voters aligning with
Trump’s policies, or is President Biden driving them away? The answer might lie in a combination of both factors.
Polling Data Reveals Shift According to the latest New York Times poll, young voters aged 18 to 29 favor Biden by a
slim margin of two points, 47% to 45%. A Quinnipiac poll shows Trump leading Biden among voters aged 18 to 34,
48% to 47%. This is a stark contrast to the 2020 presidential election, where Joe Biden secured the youth vote by a
significant 24%. The last time a Republican won this demographic was in 1988. Biden’s Struggling Message Aidan
Kohn-Murphy, founder of Gen Z for Change—a group that supported Biden in 2020—stated in the Washington Post,
“Biden is out of step with young people on a number of key issues." Key issues where Biden seems to be losing support
include: The War in Gaza: A majority of young voters, 51%, support the Palestinians, while only 15% support Israel.
TikTok Ban: Biden’s support for a TikTok ban is perceived as an attack on free speech. Consequently, 67% of Gen
Z voters say this makes them less likely to vote for him. Economic Challenges: High inflation and interest rates
have made essential costs like food and housing unaffordable for young people entering the workforce or trying
to purchase their first home. Trump’s Resonating Message The 45th president’s message appears to be resonating
with young voters for several reasons: Gaza Conflict: While Trump supports Israel, he promises to bring a peaceful
end to the conflict, citing his administration’s four years of peace as evidence of his capability. TikTok Engagement:
Trump recently joined TikTok, emphasizing that Biden wants to shut the platform down, thus appealing to younger
users. Economic Performance: When asked about Trump’s handling of the economy, 65% of young voters approved,
compared to just 33% for Biden. Social Media Dynamics According to CredoIQ, a social media analytics firm, nearly
25% of the top left-leaning content creators on TikTok have posted anti-Biden content in the first four months of
2024, garnering over 100 million views. This content is often created by young, non-white liberals who share the
belief that the U.S. Government, and specifically Joe Biden, aims to restrict free speech and information flow. Trump’s
Adaptation to New Media In 2016, Trump broke political norms with an ’anyplace, anytime’ approach, dominating
cable TV. For the 2024 campaign, he has adapted this strategy to new media, appearing on podcasts, YouTube shows,
and attending live events such as UFC and Formula 1. He has also made campaign stops at local venues, including
bodegas, firehouses, and even in the South Bronx. The shift in the youth vote suggests a significant realignment
in political affiliations, one that underscores the importance of addressing the issues most pertinent to young
Americans. This analysis highlights the potential impact of these changing dynamics on the upcoming presidential
election. [Source: Washington Post, Axios] https://archive.is/kk3HU https://www.axios.com/2024/06/13/trumpelection-young-voters-polling #GoRightNews Shared by Peter Boykin - American Political Commentator / Citizen
Journalist / Activist / Constitutionalist for Liberty Web: https://PeterBoykin.com Kick: http://Kick.com/PeterBoykin
YouTube: https://youtube.com/PeterBoykinForAmerica Twitter: https://twitter.com/GoRightNews Telegram:
http://t.me/realpeterboykin Rumble: http://Rumble.com/GoRightNews Like the Content? Please Support! - Go Right
News: Stripe: https://gorightnews.com/donations/support-gorightnews/ Cash App: http://cash.app/$PeterBoykin1"
"Rising Costs Highlight Challenges for American Families Cost of rent, energy, and other essentials surged in May In
an alarming trend, the cost of essentials such as rent, energy, and groceries continues to surge, underscoring the
persistent financial challenges faced by American families. While the overall Consumer Price Index (CPI) showed a
slight stabilization, the specifics reveal a stark reality of escalating living expenses in our Constitutional Republic.
Analyzing the Numbers The CPI indicated a 3.3% rise in overall inflation compared to the previous year. Although this
marks a slight decrease from April’s 3.4% and a significant drop from the 9.1% peak in June 2022, it remains well
above the Federal Reserve’s target rate of 2%. This persistent inflation underscores the ongoing economic strain on
American households. Historical Context It’s noteworthy that during the four years of Donald Trump’s presidency, the
average inflation rate was maintained at a modest 1.9%. This comparison highlights a more stable economic period and
suggests a need for policies that can effectively manage inflation without compromising the financial well-being
of citizens. Essential Expenses on the Rise A closer examination of the May report reveals substantial increases in
essential costs: Rent: Up by 5.4% Mortgage: Up by 5.6% Hospital services: Up by 7.2% Car insurance: Up by 20.3%
Electricity: Up by 5.9% Ground beef: Up by 4.9% Steak: Up by 5.7% Bacon: Up by 6.9% Hot dogs: Up by 7.3% These
increases in essential goods and services strain the budgets of American families, making everyday living increasingly
unaffordable. Public Sentiment A recent poll reflects the public’s discontent, with only 31% of voters approving of
President Biden’s handling of inflation, while a significant 61% disapprove. This sentiment underscores the urgent need
for effective economic policies that address the real concerns of the populace. Administration’s Response The Biden
administration continues to assert progress in combating inflation. A statement from the White House on social media
claimed: "Today’s report shows continued progress in lowering inflation. President Biden knows that costs are still too
high for many families and we still have a lot more to do. That’s why he will keep fighting to lower drug costs, grocery
prices, and energy bills." Critical Perspective However, many Americans find these assurances lacking. The everyday
experience at grocery stores and gas stations starkly contrasts with the administration’s optimistic declarations,
leading to a disconnect between government rhetoric and public reality. As a Constitutional Republic dedicated to
ensuring democracy and the well-being of its citizens, it is imperative that our government implements policies that
stabilize the economy and reduce the financial burden on American families. The rising costs of essential goods and
services are a pressing concern that requires immediate and effective action to safeguard the economic future of our
nation. [Source: Poll, Whitehouse on X, BLS] https://d3nkl3psvxxpe9.cloudfront.net/documents/econTabReport_maqVHQt.pdf https://x.com/WhiteHouse/status/1800957041390792843 https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/cpi.pdf
#GoRightNews Shared by Peter Boykin - American Political Commentator / Citizen Journalist / Activist / Constitutionalist for Liberty Web: https://PeterBoykin.com Kick: http://Kick.com/PeterBoykin
YouTube: https://youtube.com/PeterBoykinForAmerica Twitter: https://twitter.com/GoRightNews Telegram:
http://t.me/realpeterboykin Rumble: http://Rumble.com/GoRightNews Like the Content? Please Support! - Go Right
News: Stripe: https://gorightnews.com/donations/support-gorightnews/ Cash App: http://cash.app/$PeterBoykin1"

Table D.9: Top-2 posts by total engagement for coordinated pages in Facebook

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

Top-5 Messages
"!You are a Golden Child!
A Golden Child 94 Unicorn 94 Third Eye 94 Covenant 94 Harmony 94 Praise God 94 Divine Gene 94 Nine Six 94 Blue
Eyes 94 Indigo Child 94 Ultra Maga 94 John John 94 White Hat 94 American Eagle 94 Carry On 94 New Earth 94
Pineapple 94
PassionForFruit"
"#CAWildfireSituationUpdate as of 6-16-2024, 5:03 P.M. PST.
#PostFire - 12,266 acres, 2% containment #HesperiaFire - 1,330, 7% #JunesFire - 1,076, 70% #JacksonFire - 876, ?%
#HernandezFire - 600, 25% #MaxFire - 500, 0% #LisaFire - 350, 0% #PointFire 150, 0%"
"What is it like to be wiser than your Creator? Job tried that and later repented in dust and ashes. Job was a wise and
blessed man of faith."
"What was the true history behind all of these melted ruins? Certainly not the result of erosion, but perhaps a plasma
storm? The results of a sudden flip in our polar magnetic electric field perhaps."
"WAVELAND, Mississippi A boil advisory was issued Mon afternoon dt burst in the main water line.
NASHVILLE, Indiana A boil advisory was issued Mon after a water main break on Honeysuckle Ln.
MONTICELLO, Kentucky A boil advisory was issued Mon for the East Hwy 92 area dt a water main break.
MILAN, Ohio Seminary Rd bw Perrin Rd/Broad St in Milan is closed dt a water main break.
SASKATOON, SK - Canada North Park Wilson School is closed dt a water main break.
NEW CASTLE CO., Delaware Shipley Rd at Foulk Rd was closed Mon night dt a water main break.
MONTGOMERY CO., Maryland Dt a water main break Mon, a portion of the NW Branch Stream Valley Park near
Highwood Terrace was undergoing repairs.
SIOUX FALLS, South Dakota A water main break Mon afternoon caused flooding in downtown.
BOURBON CO., Kansas There is a water main break at the Bourbon Co Transfer Station.
FORTUNA, California Water will be shut off Wed to repair a broken water main on S Fortuna Blvd."

Table D.10: Top-5 posts by total engagement for cross-platform coordinated accounts

Topic

Representative Tweets

rfk

"If Kennedy iselected it will cost the evil doers over a trillion dollars in the first year. If Kennedy is in the debate it will
show Biden as sinile, Trump as weak and Bobby will be elected. So they won’t let Bobby in but will compensate CNN
and anyone that might go to jail."
"I’ve never been more convinced that both Trump and Biden fear Kennedy. The uniparty has no soul, and they hate
democracy. We will never forget their attempts to silence us. Kennedy FTW"

debate

"Biden’s really not up to debate is what this means. Whenever a question is asked, Biden’s promoters will either tell
the answer in an earplug or use a prompter screen on the podium so Biden can read the answer. This is funny."
"Trump has guts though. They tried to make it as unfriendly for him as possible, and he still is going to do it. I’m sure
they were hoping he would say no way, and then Biden could brag about Trump being afraid to debate him."

covid-vaccine

"Remember this on election day, remember All the "suddenly died" family and friends! Biden did this, he made vaccines
mandatory! Just one of many bad Biden decisions!"
"Trump was during Pandemic; FAILED to protect the American people when he knew damn well how infectious;
deadly Covid Virus was, instead Trump told America "Covid was a Hoax"; failed to create a National Suppression Plan
to save lives 700KAmericans DIED under Trump!"

bowman-latimer

"Bowman called Biden a liar. Bowman voted against the Infrastructure Act. Bowman even voted against the Debt Limit
increase that could have jeopardized Social Security. Bowman did not earn another term as a Democrat."
"Bowman is his worst enemy. His and Rape denying has turned his district against him. His Votes AGAINST the Biden
Administration’s Progressive policies are NOT helping his district! Vote !"

border-security

"with your lies. It is that BLOCKED Bipartisan Border Security Bill bc told GOP to "Kill The Bill". publicly stated it. The
Border Crisis is NOW all on for Blocking Border Bill to SECURE THE BORDER!"
"This bill was a sham and would not close border,but would allow more to take American jobs!! Donalds reiterates
why GOP rejected ‘bipartisan’ border bill to head off potential debate talking point"

epstein-files

"His flights with Epstein were with family present and years before he had an island. He’s also the only one saying
anything about releasing the logs, Biden sure isn’t, and Trump took umbrage when DeSantis started advocating for
their release for some strange reason..."
" just another day in ’Murica, home of the child sex slaves. Trump made these folks feel they deserved Matt Gaetz’ job,
Trumps’ job or Epstein’s job if they just ’networked’ enough. Investigate the real ’satanic’ sex cult that police and
politicians hide."

student-loan

"This administration and president Biden seem to be answerable to nobody between giving money to student loan
forgiveness even after the court ruled against them not getting Kennedy secret service protectiin, the list goes on no
accountability."
""Summary: We estimate that President Bidenś recently announced "New Plans" to provide relief to student borrowers
will cost $84 billion, in addition to the $475 billion that we previously estimated for President Bidenś SAVE plan.""

hunter-biden

"Hunter Biden’s laptop has nothing to do with the false Electoral College votes sent in for the 2020 election. Also,
Alexander Smirnov (an FBI informant) was INDICTED for his false accusations about Barisma and the Bidens."
"Actions speak louder than how they phrased something – especially when the actions are repeated over and over
again. Their lies are proven in this week’s Hunter Biden trial where the laptop is used as evidence."

blacks-against-biden

"People aren’t paying attention and don’t expect him to be the President and don’t know about Biden’s accomplishments.
That’s what the polls show now but that’s gonna change. Trump isn’t gonna win 20% of the black vote. No were here
near it"
"’At this stage in his presidency (3.5 years in) Biden must stop trying to convince Black voters his policies have made
the US a significantly better place. Instead he should spend everything he’s got highlighting how anti-Black Trump is
and how quickly any past gains will be lost."

Table E.11: Topics and their representative posts on X

Federico Cinus, Marco Minici, Luca Luceri, and Emilio Ferrara

Topic

Representative Messages

vaccine-skepticism

"BREAKING: US doctors and scientists are currently investigating whether the COVID-19 virus is to blame for an “unusual pattern” of rare and deadly cancers that have been popping
up in the wake of the pandemic.GeneralMCNews"
"You, the unvaccinated are a special group of people. You stood your ground. You did not let the pressures of society sway you. You withstood the harshest discrimination seen in
modern times. You were excluded from society. Some of you lost friendships and relationships with family members. You are the best that society has to offer. You used your analytical
judgment and common sense. You are the tree that withstood the hurricane. You are superheroes! CovidVaccineTruth CovidVaccineTruthChat"

holistic-health

"Ginger Lemonade for Immunity and Weight Loss\n\n We must:\n - two large lemons\n - A piece of ginger root (about 10-15 cm)\n - two liters of chilled drinking water.\n \n Wash
the lemon well and peel the ginger. Cut the lemon and ginger into larger pieces and grind them in a blender. Put everything in a jug, fill it with water and leave it in the fridge overnight."
"HACKS: CAR SCRATCHES\n\n“A life hack you’re gonna wish you knew sooner!!”\n\nI LOVE that our NATURAL REMEDIES are now in the category of MIND BLOWING, seriously
who knew that VINEGAR & COCONUT OIL could eliminate car scratches.\n\nFollow: DrBarbara_ONeill"

presidential-debate

"CNN is devastated after the debate. \n "Itś not just panic, itś pain."\n hahahah.\n\n "I think thereś a lot of people who are going to want to see him consider taking a different course
now. There is time for this party to figure out a different way forward if he will allow us to do that. Um. But that was not what we needed from Joe Biden. itś personally painful for a lot
of people. Itś not just panic, itś pain. From what we saw tonight."\n"
"The Biden regime, and their lapdogs at CNN, are going extreme lengths to control all aspects of the debate.\n\n No outside media. No audience.\n\n They are trying to completely
control public perception of the event.\n\nThey want you to reject the evidence of your eyes and ears."

flat-earth-conspiracy

"The Encyclopedia of Freemasonry reveals that the Earth is indeed flat. Organizations like The Freemasons know the truth about God and our flat earth but they choose to keep it
hidden."
"Flat Earth was the cosmology of our ancestors who had direct contact with the Divine because they were closer to the Divine than we are now. That is how the ancient’s knew things
despite not having access to technology we have now."

sinn-féin

"Foreign ’police’ mercenaries led by an ex-RUC thug against Irish Citizens?\n\nThis is only going to end one way.\n\nPack your bags Harris. The game is up.\n\nThe Irish political
class can pack their bags as well. This land is our land, it can never be sullied again by the treacherous dogs currently in office."
"Just watch this \n\n COOLE COUNTY WEST MEATH BEING PLANTED AT 5 AM IN THE MORNING - LOOK AT THE MONEY PUMPED INTO THIS INVASION/ PLANTATION
YOU WILL BEGIN TO UNDERSTAND THE FINANCIAL REWARD FOR SELLING YOUR SOUL BEING A TRAITOROUS, SELL OUT PIG \n\nJUDGEMENT DAY APPROACHES \n\n
éiReGoBragh \n\n Fergus (Ferg) Power (@FergusPower1) \n\nThese treacherous bastards won’t do this for the Irish people . Out children will have to work for years to afford a home
yet LOOK AT THIS. My blood is boiling. \n\n Good to see that lad using the word invasion & not using unvetted. We need to keep pressing to change the language around this. \n\n It
is an invasion, we are being replaced, legal immigration is worse, we are at war."

trump-trial

"If this is legit, it should wipe out Trump’s conviction. \n Judge Juan Merchan has alerted Trump’s attorneys to a Facebook post by a supposed cousin of a Trump juror who spilled the
beans that he had inside info that Trump was about to be convicted \n "My cousin is a juror and says Trump is getting convicted. Thank you folks for all your hard work!”\n\n T edit:
BY LAW, it would immediately be tossed. Remember those lessons in Constitutional Law our REAL POTUS/CiC promised us....\n\n"
"The jurors were divided into 3 groups of 4. They found Trump gulity on 34 counts. I think we’ve entered the final stages in this sting operation."

bible-citations

"Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.\n For more, please download\n"
"2 Chronicles 7:14 \n \n “If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from
heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land."

bird-flu-conspiracy

"NIH-Funded Scientists Develop mRNA Bird Flu Vaccine ‘to Prevent Human Infections’ \n\n The likelihood of people getting H5N1 is very small, Dr. Robert Malone said. “The thing is,
it doesn’t readily infect humans.”\n\n\n"
"Former coronavirus coordinator Deborah Birx wants to test millions of U.S. cows every week and screen dairy workers for "asymptomatic" cases of bird flu! \n\n You’ve got to be
kidding me, this woman is nuts! They want to try and pull the same asymptomatic bs again with more fraudulent PCR tests! \n\n\n"

ukraine-russia

"JUST IN: Russia says it’s ready to start arming enemies of the United States since the US is arming Ukraine.\n\n @BRICSNews"
"They want to reassure Zelensky with the promise of a “bridge to the alliance” before the summit. The New York Times writes about this.\n\n NATO wants to give Kyiv “something
significant” and at the same time maintain its position that it is not time for Ukraine to join the unification, the newspaper writes."

antisemitic-conspiracy

"The left and right paradigm Israel is president is from Poland they’re not real Jews most of them and even the masonic pedophile boys do Jewish rituals and then you got the Kabbalah
which leads to Jewish mysticism black magic"
"The Jews admit to controlling the world and they want to kill you and your children.\n\n It doesn’t matter what you are, European, Arabian, African, Asian, Christian, Muslim
or even atheist. No matter what you are, they want to kill you all. People must wake up and stop finghting with each other and realize who’s their actual enemy!!!\n\n Follow
us>>News_Without_Lies"

Table E.12: Topics and their representative posts on Telegram

Exposing Cross-Platform Coordinated Inauthentic Activity in the Run-Up to the 2024 U.S. Election

Topic
late-show
against-trump

Representative Posts
"Stephen Colbert Speaks Truth to Trump’s Most Damaging Lie - #stephencolbert #TheLateShow #Trump #DonaldTrump #MAGA #immigrants"
"Stephen Colbert Speaks Truth to Trump’s Most Damaging Lie - Rick Strom #stephencolbert #TheLateShow #Trump #DonaldTrump #MAGA
#immigrants"

barron-trump-rnc

"Former President Donald Trump said his youngest son Barron Trump was 17-years-old in an interview, when in fact he is 18 and a nominate
delegate for the RNC."
"Former President Donald Trump’s 18-year-old son, Barron Trump, is serving as a delegate to the Republican National Convention."

2020-election-acceptance

"Republican National Committee co-chair Lara Trump said it’s ’obvious’ that Donald Trump has accepted the 2020 election results, when in fact, he
has not."
"Republican National Committee co-chair Lara Trump said it’s ’obvious’ that Donald Trump has accepted the 2020 election results, when in fact, he
has not."

trump-trial-dayoff

"Judge Juan Merchan gave Donald Trump the day off from his hush money trial to attend Barron Trump’s graduation ceremony, but evidence
suggests that he is attending political fundraiser."
"Judge Juan Merchan gave Donald Trump the day off from his hush money trial to attend Barron Trump’s graduation ceremony, but evidence
suggests that he is attending political fundraiser."

jacked-up-biden

"Rep. Greg Murphy, a Republican, says he has evidence that President Joe Biden was using "something" before his popular State of the Union
address."
"Rep. Greg Murphy, a Republican, says he has evidence that President Joe Biden was using "something" before his popular State of the Union
address."

trump-classified-documents

"More bombshell evidence dropped against former President Donald Trump in his classified documents case, just as Judge Aileen Cannon delayed
the trial indefinitely."
"More bombshell evidence dropped against former President Donald Trump in his classified documents case, just as Judge Aileen Cannon delayed
the trial indefinitely."

rfk

"Exciting Announcement! Join us for a special interview with independent presidential candidate RFK Jr. on Monday, June 17, immediately following
The Young Turks! Tune in on tyt.com/live YouTube, Facebook, or Twitch! TYT members get exclusive access to a members-only Bonus Episode
after the interview, where Cenk will ask even more personal questions and dive deeper into the issues! Sign up as a member today at to join the
discussion! Don’t miss this unique opportunity to engage with crucial political dialogue and watch TYT hold a presidential candidate accountable!
See you there!"
"Exciting Announcement! Join us for a special interview with independent presidential candidate RFK Jr. on Monday, June 17, immediately following
The Young Turks! Tune in on tyt.com/live YouTube, Facebook, or Twitch! TYT members get exclusive access to a members-only Bonus Episode
after the interview, where Cenk will ask even more personal questions and dive deeper into the issues! Sign up as a member today at to join the
discussion! Don’t miss this unique opportunity to engage with crucial political dialogue and watch TYT hold a presidential candidate accountable!
See you there!"

coulter-ramaswamy

"Conservative Ann Coulter told former Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy said while she agrees with him on many issues, she
wouldn’t vote for him because he’s “an Indian.”"
"Conservative Ann Coulter told former Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy said while she agrees with him on many issues, she
wouldn’t vote for him because he’s “an Indian.”"

trump-falsifying-records

"Fox News’ Jeanine Pirro and conservative commentator Charlie Kirk are melting down over former President Donald Trump’s 34-count conviction
for falsifying business records in his hush money trial."

bannon-sentence

"Donald Trump adviser Steve Bannon proclaimed that ´"no one" will shut him up as he was ordered to report to prison for refusing to testify before
congress."

Table E.13: Topics and their representative posts on Facebook

