# Building Guardrails for Large Language Models

- **arXiv:** 2402.00794
- **Abs URL:** https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00794
- **PDF URL:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.00794

---

ReAGent: A Model-agnostic Feature Attribution Method for Generative
Language Models
Zhixue Zhao, Boxuan Shan

arXiv:2402.00794v2 [cs.CL] 7 Feb 2024

Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield
{zhixue.zhao, bshan3}@sheffield.ac.uk

Abstract
Feature attribution methods (FAs), such as gradients and attention, are widely employed approaches to derive the importance of all input features to the model predictions. Existing
work in natural language processing has mostly focused on
developing and testing FAs for encoder-only language models (LMs) in classification tasks. However, it is unknown if it
is faithful to use these FAs for decoder-only models on text
generation, due to the inherent differences between model
architectures and task settings respectively. Moreover, previous work has demonstrated that there is no ŌĆśone-wins-allŌĆÖ
FA across models and tasks. This makes the selection of a
FA computationally expensive for large LMs since input importance derivation often requires multiple forward and backward passes including gradient computations that might be
prohibitive even with access to large compute. To address
these issues, we present a model-agnostic FA for generative
LMs called Recursive Attribution Generator (ReAGent). Our
method updates the token importance distribution in a recursive manner. For each update, we compute the difference in
the probability distribution over the vocabulary for predicting
the next token between using the original input and using a
modified version where a part of the input is replaced with
RoBERTa predictions. Our intuition is that replacing an important token in the context should have resulted in a larger
change in the modelŌĆÖs confidence in predicting the token than
replacing an unimportant token. Our method can be universally applied to any generative LM without accessing internal model weights or additional training and fine-tuning, as
most other FAs require. We extensively compare the faithfulness of ReAGent with seven popular FAs across six decoderonly LMs of various sizes. The results show that our method
consistently provides more faithful token importance distributions.1
Introduction

Feature attribution (FA) techniques are popular post-hoc
methods to provide explanations for model predictions. FAs
generate token-level importance scores to highlight the contribution of each token to a prediction (Denil, Demiraj, and
De Freitas 2014; Li et al. 2015; Jain et al. 2020; Kersten
et al. 2021). The top-k important tokens are typically conCopyright ┬® 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
Our code: https://github.com/casszhao/ReAGent

Figure 1: Input importance distributions for a generative task
(top) and a classification task (bottom) using a toy FA.
sidered as the prediction rationale (Zaidan, Eisner, and Piatko 2007; Kindermans et al. 2016; Sundararajan, Taly, and
Yan 2017; DeYoung et al. 2020). The quality of a rationale
is often evaluated using faithfulness metrics which measure
to what extent the rationale accurately reflects the decision
mechanisms of the model (DeYoung et al. 2020; Jacovi and
Goldberg 2020; Ding and Koehn 2021; Zhao and Aletras
2023).2
The faithfulness of FAs is well-studied in the context of
text classification tasks, particularly with encoder-only language models (LMs), e.g. BERT-based models (Ding and
Koehn 2021; Zhou, Ribeiro, and Shah 2022; Zhao et al.
2022; Attanasio et al. 2023). A range of FAs has been developed and evaluated in such a context, e.g. propagationbased methods that rely on forward-backward passes to the
model for computing importance (Kindermans et al. 2016;
Sundararajan, Taly, and Yan 2017; Atanasova et al. 2020),
attention-based methods that use attention weights as an
indication of importance (Serrano and Smith 2019; Jain
et al. 2020; Abnar and Zuidema 2020), and occlusion-based
methods that probe the model behavior with corrupted input (Lei, Barzilay, and Jaakkola 2016; Bastings, Aziz, and
Titov 2019; Bashier, Kim, and Goebel 2020).
However, it is non-trivial and not guaranteed to be faithful
Plausibility is another aspect of rationale quality, measuring
how understandable it is to humans (Jacovi and Goldberg 2020)
and it is out of the scope of our study.

to apply these FAs on decoder-only LMs for text generation
directly, due to the inherent differences between encoder and
decoder-only models and task settings respectively, e.g. different attention mechanisms. Moreover, FAs should produce
an attribution distribution per token position for decoderonly LMs in generation tasks, while only a single attribution
distribution needs to be computed for fine-tuned encoderonly models. Figure 1 shows the difference in complexity of
applying a toy FA on a decoder and encoder-only LM respectively. Previous work has demonstrated that there is no
ŌĆśone-wins-allŌĆÖ FA across models and tasks (Atanasova et al.
2020). Therefore, a separate comparison of various FAs is
required for each task and model. However, this is computationally expensive for large LMs (e.g. some FAs may additionally require forward-backward passes). In some cases,
FAs might not even be applicable to black-box models that
are available only through an API that might provide access
to the predictive likelihood but not the internal weights, e.g.
the OpenAI API.3
Vafa et al. (2021) proposed using a greedy search to find
the shortest subset of the input as the rationale for generation tasks. However, their method only highlights important
tokens in a binary manner, i.e. important or not. More importantly, this method requires model fine-tuning which is
prohibitive for large LMs and it might not truly reflect the
original modelsŌĆÖ inner reasoning process but the new finetuned one.
To address these challenges, we propose Recursive Attribution Generator (ReAGent), a FA for decoder-only LMs
that computes the input importance distribution for each token position recursively by replacing tokens from the original input with tokens predicted by RoBERTa where the rest
are masked. Our intuition is that replacing important tokens
should result in larger predictive likelihood differences. We
make the following contributions:
ŌĆó ReAGent does not require accessing the model internally
and can be easily applied to any generative LM;
ŌĆó We empirically show that ReAGent is consistently more
faithful than seven popular FAs by conducting a comprehensive suite of experiments, covering three tasks and six
LMs of varying sizes from two different model families;
ŌĆó Our method does not need to retain any gradients for
computing input importance but only relies on forward
passes (Bach et al. 2015; Lundberg and Lee 2017; Selvaraju et al. 2017; Ancona et al. 2018). This minimizes
the memory footprint and compute required.
2.1

Related Work

Post-hoc FAs

Post-hoc explanation methods such as FA techniques are applied retrospectively by seeking to extract explanations after
the model makes a prediction. Most FAs have been proposed
in the context of classification tasks, where a sequence input
x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 is associated with a true label y and a predicted
label y╠é. The underlying goal is to identify which parts of the
https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction

input contribute more toward the prediction y╠é (Lei, Barzilay, and Jaakkola 2016). Figure 1 (bottom) shows an example. Most FAs generally fall into propagation, attention, and
occlusion-based categories.
Propagation-based (i.e. gradient-based) methods derive
the importance for each token by computing gradients with
respect to the input (Denil, Demiraj, and De Freitas 2014).
Building upon this, the input token vector is multiplied by
the gradient (Input x Gradient) (Denil, Demiraj, and De Freitas 2014), while Integrated Gradients compares the input
with a null baseline input when computing the gradients
with respect to the input (Sundararajan, Taly, and Yan 2017).
Other propagation-based FAs include Layer-wise Relevance
Propagation (Bach et al. 2015), GradientSHAP (Lundberg
and Lee 2017), and DeepLIFT (Selvaraju et al. 2017; Ancona et al. 2018). Nielsen et al. (2022) offer a comprehensive
overview of different propagation-based FAs.
Attention-based FAs are applied to models that include
an attention mechanism to weigh the input tokens. The assumption is that the attention weights represent the importance of each token. These FAs include scaling the attention weights by their gradients, taking the attention scores
from the last layer, and recursively computing the attention
in each layer (Serrano and Smith 2019; Jain et al. 2020; Abnar and Zuidema 2020).
Occlusion-based methods measure the difference in
model prediction between using the original input and a
corrupted version of the input by gradually removing tokens (Lei, Barzilay, and Jaakkola 2016; Nguyen 2018; Bastings, Aziz, and Titov 2019; Bashier, Kim, and Goebel 2020)
The underlying idea is that removing important tokens will
lead the model to flip its prediction or a significant drop in
the prediction confidence.
Another line of work has focused on learning feature attributions with a modified model or a separate explainer
model (Ribeiro, Singh, and Guestrin 2016; Lundberg and
Lee 2017; Kindermans et al. 2019; Bashier, Kim, and
Goebel 2020; Kokhlikyan et al. 2021; Hase, Xie, and Bansal
2021). For example, LIME trains a linear classifier that approximates the model behavior in the neighborhood of a
given input. SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) learns
the predictive probability of using different combinations
of tokens and then computes the marginal contribution of
each token towards the target prediction (Lundberg and Lee
2017).
The methods above have specific model dependencies
(e.g. attention) or require specific training or fine-tuning,
which makes it difficult to apply them to decoder-only models for generation tasks directly.

2.2

FAs for Generative Models

In text generation tasks, the model (often decoder-only)
needs n forward passes to generate a sequence of n tokens.
As shown in Figure 1, a different token importance distribution is computed for each predicted token.
Vafa et al. (2021) propose a greedy search approach to
find a minimum subset of the input that maximizes the probability of the target token which is considered as the rationale for generative LMs. Their method identifies if a token

belongs to the rationale or not, i.e. binary prediction, rather
than an importance distribution. This makes it hard to evaluate if such a rationale is more faithful than others. Furthermore, this method requires fine-tuning the original model
to support blank positions (i.e. removed tokens) which is
rather challenging and computationally inefficient for large
LMs. C─▒╠üfka and Liutkus (2023) estimate the importance of
each token by exploring how different lengths of their lefthand side context impact the predictive probability of the
target token. They describe the estimated importance output as ŌĆ£differential importance scoresŌĆØ, and point out that a
higher score should not be interpreted as the token is more
important for the prediction, but it should be considered as
how much ŌĆ£new informationŌĆØ the token adds to the context
that the other tokens have not covered yet.
To the best of our knowledge, no previous work has proposed a model-agnostic FA for generative LMs.
3.1

Preliminaries

Algorithm 1: Recursive Attribution Generator
Input: LM f , context x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 , target token xt
Output: St = {s1 , . . . , stŌłÆ1 }
1: Randomly initialize importance scores St
2: while !StoppingCondition (St , xt ) do
3:
R ŌåÉ randomly select tokens R Ōłł x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1
4:
x╠é1 , . . . , x╠étŌłÆ1 ŌåÉ replace R on x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 with tokens
predicted by RoBERTa
5:
Ōłåp ŌåÉ p(xt |x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 ) ŌłÆ p(xt |x╠é1...tŌłÆ1 )
6:
update importance scores s1 , . . . , stŌłÆ1 by Ōłåp and R
7: end while
8: return St

Generative Language Modeling

In generative language modeling, the input is a sequence
of tokens, X = [x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 ], i.e. the initial input (often called a prompt). The goal is to learn a model f╬Ė
that approximates the probability p╬Ė of the token sequence
x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 . Here, we assume that f╬Ė is a specific pretrained generative LM, such as GPT (Brown et al. 2020), for
predicting the probability of the next token xt conditioned
to the context x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 and parameterized by ╬Ė:
p╬Ė (x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 ) = f╬Ė (x1 )

T
Y

f╬Ė (xt | x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 )

(1)

t=2

3.2

iteratively replaces tokens from the context x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 to
compute token importance.
The overall process (shown in Algorithm 1) consists of:
(1) initializing importance scores randomly (Step 1); (2)
starting an iteration loop for updating importance scores
(Steps 3 to 6) till meeting the stopping condition (Step 2).

Input Importance for Generative LMs

Assuming an underlying model f╬Ė , we want to compute the
input importance distribution for each predicted token x╠é ŌŖé
X given the input tokens X = x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 .
A FA method et applied on position t produces an importance distribution St = s1 , . . . , stŌłÆ1 for a target token xt :
et (f, ╬Ė, x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 , xt ) ŌåÆ St , t Ōłł {1, . . . , n}

(2)

4.1

Computing Importance Scores

To compute the importance of the context tokens
x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 , we repeat the following steps until a stopping
condition is met.
Step 3: Context tokens to be replaced We first randomly
choose a set of tokens R (r% of the entire sequence, r = 30)
from x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 to be replaced.
Step 4: Replacement tokens A replacing function C
replaces each token in X with the token predicted by
RoBERTa.4 A new sequence is generated for the occlusion
of X later.
C(X) =[x╠é1 , x╠é2 , . . . x╠étŌłÆ1 ]
Ōł╝ U (X (g) ([x1 , x2 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 ]))

Steps 5 & 6: Updating importance scores The importance distribution St is computed based on the selection of
tokens, R, and the predictive difference, Ōłåp in Eq. 6, after
R replaced by C(X) as following:
(o)

pt

We assume that a higher si denotes higher importance. e is
applied n times for generating importance distributions for n
tokens. For a model agnostic et , access to model parameters
╬Ė is not required.
= p(xt |X)

(4)

(r)
pt = p(xt |(M (X, R) + M (C(X), R)))

(5)

(o)
(r)
Ōłåpt = pt ŌłÆ pt

(6)

ŌłåSt = M (Ōłåpt ┬Ę 1

|X|

, R) + M (ŌłÆŌłåpt ┬Ę 1


ŌłåSt + 1
(l)
(l)
St = SnŌłÆ1 + logit
Recursive Attribution Generator
(ReAGent)

Our aim is to compute the input importance distribution per
predicted token by being (1) model-agnostic (i.e. we should
not rely on an attention mechanism); and (2) able to support
black-box LMs with no access to their weights and architecture details (i.e. we should not rely on backward passes for
computing gradients).
Inspired by occlusion-based FA methods (Zeiler and Fergus 2014; Nguyen 2018), we assume that replacing more important tokens in the input context x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 will result
in larger drops in the predictive likelihood of the target token xt . Therefore, we propose ReAGent, a new method that

(3)

(l)

St = softmax(St )
(o)

|X|

, R)

(7)
(8)
(9)

(r)

where pt and pt are predictive probabilities for target xt
when using the original sequence and the sequence with replaced tokens, respectively. M (X, R) is a masking function that results in token replacements only for xi selected
in step 3. Finally, St is obtained by adding ŌłåSt with StŌłÆ1
in logistic scale.
We also test another two methods providing tokens to replace.
However, they empirically perform poorly. We include the results
of these two methods in Section A in the Appendix.

4.2

Step 2: Stopping Condition

A stopping condition is set up for the iterative updating process. When prompting the model with top-n (default 70%)
unimportant tokens replaced with RoBERTa predictions, if
the top-k (default set to 3) predicted candidate tokens (by
the model to explain) contain the target token xt , the iterative process stops.
Experimental Setup

5.1

Datasets

Dataset

Length

#Data

LongRA
37ŌĆō149

TellMeWhy
200

WikiBio
238

Prompt Example
ŌĆ£When my flight landed in Japan, I converted my currency and
slowly fell asleep. (I had a terrifying dream about my grandmother, but thatŌĆÖs a story for another time). I was staying in the
capital,
ŌĆØ
ŌĆ£Joe ripped his backpack. He needed a new one. He went to Office Depot. They had only one in stock. Joe was able to nab it
just in time.Why did He need a new one?ŌĆØ
ŌĆ£Rudy Fernandez (1941ŌĆō2008) was a labor leader and civil
rights activist from the United States. He was born in San Antonio, Texas, and was the son of Mexican immigrants.ŌĆØ

Table 1: Summary of Tasks. Note that different models have
different LongRA data as we only keep ones that have the
same predictions with and without distractors (sentences in
parenthesis). Length refers to the average token count of input sequences.
We experiment with three generic text generation datasets
for prompting LMs with different contextual levels, following recent related work (Vafa et al. 2021; Lal et al. 2021;
Gehrmann et al. 2021; Manakul, Liusie, and Gales 2023).
ŌĆó Long-Range Agreement (LongRA) is designed by Vafa
et al. (2021) to allure the model to predict a specific
word. The dataset uses template sentences based on word
pairs from Mikolov et al. (2013) such that the two words,
e.g. Japan and Tokyo in Table 1, are semantically or
syntactically-related. The input includes one word from
a pair and aims to prompt the model to predict the other
word in the pair. A distractor sentence that contains no
pertinent information about the word pair is also inserted,
e.g. in () in Table 1. Following Vafa et al. (2021), we only
keep examples where the prediction is the same both with
and without the distractor.
ŌĆó TellMeWhy is a generation task for answering whyquestions in narratives. The input contains a short narrative and a question concerning why characters in a narrative perform certain actions (Lal et al. 2021). We randomly sample 200 examples.
ŌĆó WikiBio is a dataset of Wikipedia biographies. We take
the first two sentences as a prompt similar to Manakul,
Liusie, and Gales (2023). The model is expected to continue generating the biography. This task is intuitively
more open than the two tasks above.

5.2

Models

We test six large LMs, three models from the GPT (Radford et al. 2019; Brown et al. 2020; Wang 2021; Wang and
Komatsuzaki 2021) and three from the OPT family (Zhang
et al. 2022). We choose our models to span from hundreds of

millions to a few billions of parameters (354M, 1.5B and 6B
parameters for GPT; and 350M, 1.3B, and 6.7B parameters
for OPT), as we want to explore how the model size affects
the faithfulness of each FA. All models used are publicly
available. 5

5.3

Feature Attribution Methods

For comparison, we test seven widely-used FAs (Atanasova
et al. 2020; Vafa et al. 2021):
ŌĆó Input X Gradient: embedding gradients multiplied by
the embeddings (Denil, Demiraj, and De Freitas 2014).
ŌĆó Integrated Gradients: Integrate overall gradients using
a linear interpolation between a baseline input (all zero
embeddings) and the original input (Sundararajan, Taly,
and Yan 2017).
ŌĆó Gradient Shap: Compute the gradient with respect to
randomly selected points between the inputs and a baseline distribution (Lundberg and Lee 2017).
ŌĆó Attention: It is computed averaged attentions across all
layers and heads (Jain et al. 2020).
ŌĆó Last Attention: The last-layer attention weights averaged across heads (Jain et al. 2020).
ŌĆó Attention rollout: Recursively computing the token attention in each layer, e.g. computing the attention from
all positions in layer li to all positions in layer lj , where
j < i (Abnar and Zuidema 2020).
ŌĆó LIME: For each input, train a linear surrogate model using data points randomly sampled locally around the prediction (Ribeiro, Singh, and Guestrin 2016).
ŌĆó Random Following Chrysostomou and Aletras (2022),
we take a random attribution baseline (i.e. randomly assigning importance scores) as a yardstick to have a comparable analysis across data.
We exclude FAs that demand additional model modifications, e.g. greedy search (Vafa et al. 2021).6

5.4

Faithfulness Evaluation

For evaluation, we use normalized Soft-Sufficiency (SoftNS) and comprehensiveness (Soft-NC) that measure the
faithfulness of the full importance distribution proposed
by Zhao and Aletras (2023). The metrics are defined as follows:
Soft-S(X, xt , XŌĆ▓ ) = 1 ŌłÆ max(0, p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|XŌĆ▓ ))
Soft-NS(X, y╠é, XŌĆ▓ ) =

Soft-S(X, y╠é, XŌĆ▓ ) ŌłÆ S(X, y╠é, 0)
1 ŌłÆ S(X, y╠é, 0)

Soft-C(X, y╠é, XŌĆ▓ ) = max(0, p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|XŌĆ▓ ))
Soft-NC(X, y╠é, XŌĆ▓ ) =
(10)

Soft-C(X, y╠é, XŌĆ▓ )
1 ŌłÆ S(X, y╠é, 0)

We use checkpoints from the Huggingface library for each model with the following identifiers:
gpt2- medium,
gpt2-xl,
EleutherAI/gpt-j-6b,
facebook/opt-350m,
facebook/opt-1.3b,
KoboldAI/OPT-6.7B-Erebus.
We provide a comparison with the greedy search on GPT2ŌĆō
354M in the Appendix. Due to the expensive fine-tuning, we do
not apply it to other models.

where XŌĆ▓ is obtained by using q = 1 ŌłÆ si in Eq. 11 for each
token vector xŌĆ▓i . Given a token vector xi from the input X
and its FA score si , the input is soft-perturbed as follows:
xŌĆ▓i = xi ŌŖÖ ei , ei Ōł╝ Ber(q)

(11)

where Ber a Bernoulli distribution and e a binary mask vector of size n. Ber is parameterized with probability q:

s,
if retaining elements
(12)
q=
1 ŌłÆ s, if removing elements
Adapting Soft-NS & NC for Generative LMs
Soft-NS and Soft-NC have been proposed for evaluating
FAs in the context of encoder-only models. To evaluate FAs
on generation tasks, there is one issue to address when adapting Soft-NS and Soft-NC to generative tasks and models:
the lack of predictive likelihood of the predicted label. Naturally, we can treat each token as a label. However, in empirical experiments, we find that the high dimension of the
output leads to high sensitivity of the predictive probability of the specific token. In other words, p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|R)
╦å
and p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|X\R ) often approximate to p(y|X).
Rescaling is a potential but hassle solution due to the fact that
different inputs might need different scaling.
Therefore, we propose to measure the Hellinger distance
between prediction distributions over the vocabulary to assess the changes in model predictions. Essentially, we replace p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|XŌĆ▓ ) in Eq. 10 with the Hellinger distance. Considering two discrete probability
distributions


PX,t = [p1,t , . . . , pv,t ] and PX ŌĆ▓ ,t = pŌĆ▓1,t , . . . , pŌĆ▓v,t , the
Hellinger distance is formally defined as:
ŌłåPX ŌĆ▓ ,t = H(PX,t , PX ŌĆ▓ ,t )
v
u v 
q 2
X ŌłÜ
1 u
= ŌłÜ t
pi,t ŌłÆ pŌĆ▓i,t
2 i=1

(13)

where PX,t is the probability distribution over the entire vocabulary (of size v) when prompting the model
with the full-text, X. PX ŌĆ▓ ,t is for prompting the model
with soft-perturbed text. For a given sequence input X =
x1 , . . . , xtŌłÆ1 and a model of vocabulary size v, at time step
t, the model generates a distribution PX,t for the next token
xt . The final Soft-NS and Soft-NC at step t for text generation are formulated as:
Soft-NS(X, xt , R) =

max(0, ŌłåP0,t ŌłÆ ŌłåPX ŌĆ▓ ,t )
ŌłåP0,t

Soft-NC(X, xt , R) =

ŌłåPXŌĆ▓ \R ,t
ŌłåP0,t

(14)
(15)

where ŌłåP0,t is Hellinger distance between a zero inputŌĆÖs
probability distribution and full-text inputŌĆÖs probability distribution. XŌĆ▓ \R , t is the case of ŌĆ£if removing elementsŌĆØ described in Eq. 12.
C─▒╠üfka and Liutkus (2023) adopt KL divergence to measure the impact on the model probability distribution when
using different lengths of left-hand context. Noted by C─▒╠üfka
and Liutkus (2023), this metric in their study is not related

to the marginal effect of each token on the model prediction (Bastings and Filippova 2020; Pham et al. 2022), but
rather to measure how much ŌĆ£new informationŌĆØ the token
adding to the input that other tokens have not covered.7
We evaluate the token-level faithfulness on the dataset
LongRA and the sequence-level faithfulness on TellMeWhy and WikiBio. Specifically, on LongRA, we evaluate
Soft-NS/NC on the target word (from the word pair) for a
token-level faithfulness. On TellMeWhy and WikiBio, we
evaluate Soft-NS/NC for every five tokens8 from the sequential prediction, and take the average as the sequence-level
faithfulness.

5.5

Implementation Details

Our method has four hyperparameters: ratio of replaced tokens r for updating, validating tolerance k and rationale size
n for the stopping condition. We empirically find the faithfulness of our method is not sensitive to the hyperparameters
of the following ranges: replacing ratio r Ōłł (0.1, 0.3), validating tolerance k Ōłł (3, 5), and rationale size n Ōłł (5, 8). A
faithfulness comparison of different hyperparameters using
GPT2ŌĆō354M and further discussion is presented in Table 6
in Section 6.4. We recommend practitioners use validating
tolerance k = 3, replacing ratio r = 0.1, and replacing ratio
0.3, which is the fastest combination, and its faithfulness is
not necessarily decreased.
Our method relies on the random selection of to-bereplaced tokens. To handle the stochasticity and the potential coverage issues, we perform three separate runs with
different random seeds to obtain three importance distributions. We average distributions that stop before a maximum
of 1,000 steps (loops in Algorithm 1).
We use pre-trained generative LMs from the Huggingface
library (Wolf et al. 2020). We do not fine-tune any model and
always use vanilla settings. Experiments are run on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU with 80GB memory (HBM2e). We
use a Dell PowerEdge XE8545 machine with CUDA parallelism.
6.1

Results

Overall Faithfulness

Figure 2 shows results on token-level faithfulness. Figure 3
shows sequence-level faithfulness. All Soft-NS/NC are presented as the log of scores divided by the random baseline. Accordingly, FAs with Soft-NS/NC below zero are less
faithful than the random baseline, i.e. unfaithful. Exhaustive
Several metrics of measuring the distance for discrete distributions exist, such as the Bhattacharyya distance, the Hellinger
distance, and Kullback-Leibler divergence (Lebret and Collobert
2014; Grave, Obozinski, and Bach 2014; Weeds, Weir, and McCarthy 2004; O╠ü Se╠üaghdha and Copestake 2008). We use Hellinger
distance for its simplicity and symmetry property (as it is a true
distance) (Lebret and Collobert 2014). Also, its range is [0, 1], considering the p(y╠é|X) ŌłÆ p(y╠é|R) range [-1, 1].
That is, evaluating on a stride size of five tokens. The purpose
is to save computing. In our code, it is a changeable hyperparameter.

Soft-NC
Attention
Attention Last
Attention Rollout
Gradient Shap
Input X Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Lime
ReAGent

Soft-NS

LongRA

TellMeWhy

WikiBio

LongRA

TellMeWhy

WikiBio

-0.28
0.048
0.209
1.101
1.423
1.865
0.412
5.402

2.161
0.07
0.047
1.892
1.463
1.536
0.249
4.504

1.176
0.092
0.211
0.108
0.49
1.384
1.906
1.982

0.099
-0.222
-0.099
-0.116
0.03
0.451
-0.012
1.136

-0.3
-0.102
-0.085
-0.029
-0.22
0.045
-0.091
1.024

0.302
-0.151
-0.023
0.51
-0.081
0.765
0.461
1.087

Table 2: Soft-NS and Soft-NC averaged over tasks. The best
FA on the model (column) is highlighted in bold.

Figure 2: Token-level faithfulness on LongRA. Values that
are close to zero indicate its faithfulness is on par with the
random baseline.

the other FAs in more than half of evaluation cases. For example, on LongRA (Figure 2), ReAGent always achieves the
highest Soft-NC across models, and on WikiBio, ReAGent
consistently outperforms the rest of the FAs on all OPT models. Further, ReAGent is the only FA that consistently outperforms the random baseline. Therefore, we suggest that
the faithfulness of a FA varies across generative models
and generation tasks. Compared with popular FAs, our
FA is more faithful as it shows faithfulness consistency,
and it outperforms the other FAs across tasks and models overall.
Between tasks, ReAGent shows a more apparent advantage over other FAs on the token-level task, LongRA.
ReAGent consistently outperforms the others on LongRA
except for being on par with the best, integrated gradients, on
Soft-NS on OPT-1.3B and GPT-J-6B. Between models, we
observe that FAs tend to have comparable faithfulness performance on models from the same model family than nonfamily models. For example, on WikiBio, Integrated gradient always has higher Soft-NS and Soft-NC on GPT family
than on OPT family. Similarly, Lime is consistently on par
with the random baseline on OPT models but is the top-two
highest on GPT models. We further investigate these in later
sections.

6.2

Faithfulness across Tasks and Models

We average Soft-NS/NC over tasks (Table 2) and models
(Table 3) respectively. Overall, ReAGent outperforms the
other FAs in 17 column-wise comparisons out of 18 in total in the two tables. On the only one exceptional, ReAGent
is on par with the corresponding best, i.e. 1.008 to 1.147
(Soft-NS, GPT-J-6B).

Figure 3: Sequence-level faithfulness, i.e. Soft-NS and SoftNC, on the two datasets: WikiBio and TellMeWhy. Values
that are close to zero indicate its faithfulness is on par with
the random baseline.

results with significant tests can be found in Table 8 in the
Appendix B.
Overall, no single FA outperforms the others consistently
across metrics, datasets, and models. ReAGent outperforms

Tasks As shown in Figure 2, ReAGent is the most faithful
FA in terms of both Soft-NS and Soft-NC across task-wise
comparison. Particularly, for the token-level task, LongRA,
ReAGent overwhelmingly outperforms the second-highest,
i.e. 5.402 to 1.865 (Integrated Gradients). In task LongRA,
intuitively, the model takes more hints from the indicator token in the input, e.g. ŌĆ£TennesseeŌĆØ to ŌĆ£NashvilleŌĆØ. Between
TellyMeWhy and WikiBio, ReAGent exhibits greater advantages on TellyMeWhy, where the prompts provide richer
contextual information. We conduct a qualitative analysis of
the importance distributions by each FA and observe that
ReAGent more effectively captures the hint token within the
context of the input prompt, examples from GPT2ŌĆō1.5B are
shown in Figure 4 and Table 4.

Soft-NC
Attention
Attention Last
Attention Rollout
Gradient Shap
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Lime
ReAGent
Soft-NS
Attention
Attention Last
Attention Rollout
Gradient Shap
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Lime
ReAGent

OPT-350M

OPT-1.3B

OPT-6.7B

GPT2ŌĆō354M

GPT2ŌĆō1.5B

GPT-J-6B

0.011
-0.161
-0.059
-0.051
0.243
0.323
0.221
2.187

0.865
0.163
0.241
0.222
-0.12
0.328
-1.431
3.753

1.167
0.431
0.457
-0.022
0.188
0.129
-1.48
5.247

1.142
-0.114
0.192
1.645
1.939
2.408
2.269
3.202

1.542
0.204
0.138
2.449
2.64
3.442
3.47
5.471

1.387
-0.104
-0.034
1.959
1.86
2.94
2.086
3.916

OPT-350M

OPT-1.3B

OPT-6.7B

GPT2ŌĆō354M

GPT2ŌĆō1.5B

GPT-J-6B

0.068
-0.085
0.089
-0.334
-0.149
-0.384
-0.16
0.693

0.233
-0.173
-0.151
-0.035
-0.371
-0.002
-0.649
0.759

0.581
-0.397
-0.214
-0.107
-0.133
0.134
0.01
1.306

0.039
-0.21
-0.077
0.586
-0.079
0.657
0.377
1.192

0.448
-0.005
0.006
0.026
-0.181
0.971
0.523
1.535

-1.168
-0.079
-0.068
0.593
0.371
1.147
0.614
1.008

Table 3: Soft-NS and Soft-NC averaged over models. The
best FA on the model (column) is highlighted in bold.

Likely, we see the WikiBio example in Table 4, ReAgent
more emphasizes the importance of ŌĆ£Super MarioŌĆØ than
Lime when predicting ŌĆ£NintendoŌĆØ.
We conclude that for tasks provided with contextualized information and expecting specific predictions,
ReAGent is more faithful than the other FAs. It is capable to pick up the link between the hint in the input
and the predictions that the model utilizes to make the
specific prediction.
Models As shown in Figure 2, between OPT and GPT
family, ReAGent shows greater advantages on OPT models than on GPT models, i.e. ReAGent consistently outperforms other FAs on OPT models on both metrics while only
achieving the top-two consistently on GPT models. This indicates the possible difference in inner operation between
model families and the similarity within model families.

6.3

Figure 4: Importance distribution over the input: ŌĆ£As soon as
I arrived in Tennessee, I checked into my hotel, and watched
a movie before falling asleep. (I had a great call with my
husband, although I wish it were longer). I was staying in
my favorite city, ŌĆØ. The sentence in () is the distractor. The
model predicts ŌĆ£NashvilleŌĆØ regardless of whether the input
includes the distractor or not.
Figure 4 shows the importance distribution given by the
best (ReAGent), the second-best (Integrated gradients), and
the worst (Attention) FAs on LongRA. For this example,
ReAGent is able to better catch the importance of ŌĆ£TennesseeŌĆØ and ŌĆ£cityŌĆØ than Integrated Gradients and Attention.
Although Integrated gradients, the second-best FA, recognizes the importance of ŌĆ£TennesseeŌĆØ, it fails to ignore the
contribution of the distractor sentence as ReAGent does.
Dataset
WikiBio

TellMeWhy

Full Output

FA

Input

developed by
Nintendo for
the Nintendo
Entertainment
System.

ReAGent

Super Mario Land is a side sc rolling
platform video game developed by

Lime

Super Mario Land is a side sc rolling
platform video game developed by

He went to
see his old
college.

ReAGent

Lime

Jay took a trip to his old college Jay
is an alumni He visited his friends He
went and got drunk He had a good
time Why did He go ? He
Jay took a trip to his old college Jay
is an alumni He visited his friends He
went and got drunk He had a good
time Why did He go ? He

Table 4: Importance distribution is given by ReAGent and
Lime, for Model GPT2ŌĆō1.5B.

Evaluation on Long-Range Agreement with
Greedy Search

Following Vafa et al. (2021), we conduct a Long-Range
Agreement evaluation of rationales given by each FA and
the greedy search method (i.e. greedy rationalization (Vafa
et al. 2021)).The greedy search aims to discover the smallest subset of input tokens that would predict the same output
as the full sequence (Vafa et al. 2021). Therefore, rationales
given by the greedy search are in various lengths, i.e. each
input has its own rationales in different lengths. We reproduce their experiment and apply the input-specific rationale
length by greedy search to extract the rationale for each FA,
and then evaluate the Ante ratio and No.D ratio of rationales.
We acknowledge the potential bias that the setup of the rationale length is biased towards the greedy search due to the
limitation of the greedy search itself. Specifically, greedy
search only provides binary rationales, i.e. a token is a rationale or not, rather than an importance distribution. Further,
for a given output, two selected rationales by greedy search
will be taken as equally important. We only experiment with
GPT2ŌĆō354M as greedy search requires further fine-tuning.
Table 5 shows the Ante ratio and No.D ratio of each FA
when using varying lengths of rationales by greedy search,
on dataset LongRA. For both metrics, the higher, the better the rationales are, according to the faithfulness definition
(the smallest subset for predicting the same output as the full
sequence) by Vafa et al. (2021). As shown in the table, although the setup of rationale length favours greedy search
by nature, Attention Rollout outperforms greedy search on
No.D and Gradient Shap is on par with Greedy Search on
Ante.

6.4

Impact of Hyper-Parameters

All of our experiments do not involve training or fine-tuning
any language models. Gradient-based FAs and Lime are
built upon Inseq library (Sarti et al. 2023). All reported results of ReAGent in the main body are with a replacing ratio
of 30%, max step of 3000, three runs, and top five unimportant tokens for stopping conditions.
To examine the sensitivity of hyper-parameters of
ReAGent, we experiment on GPT2ŌĆō354M with different set-

Ante Ratio
Gradient Shap
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Greedy Search
ReAGent
0.471
0.987
0.357
0.898
0.936
0.930

No.D Ratio
0.592
0.471
0.503
0.930
0.745
0.707
0.667
0.710

Table 5: FAs faithfulness on long-range agreement with templates analogies. ŌĆ£RatioŌĆØ refers to the approximation ratio of
each methodŌĆÖs rationale length to the exhaustive search minimum. ŌĆ£AnteŌĆØ refers to the percentage of rationales that contain the true antecedent. ŌĆ£No DŌĆØ refers to the percentage of
rationales that do not contain any tokens from the distractor.

tings of these hyperparameters. The result shows that our
method is always more faithful than the random baseline
(above zero), as shown in Table 6.
Replacing Ratio r
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3

Max Step m

Runs

Soft-NS

Soft-NC
5000
3000
3000
5
5
5
3

1.910
2.089
1.752
1.752
2.09
2.406
2.039

1.623
3.009
2.170
2.170
4.009
1.481
1.639

Model

Token replacing method

Steps

Steps std

Soft-NS

Soft-NC

GPT2 354M

RoBERTa
Random
POS
4041
633
1142

2.358
1.95
1.35

2.269
5.578
2.028

GPT2 1.5B

RoBERTa
Random
POS
4379
701
928

1.215
1.344
0.039

5.105
8.173
3.419

GPT-J 6B

RoBERTa
Random
POS
3126
972
1285

1.593
0.943
1.758

2.739
6.908
3.217

OPT 350M

RoBERTa
Random
POS
3776
106
1132

1.483
1.527
2.055

3.141
3.947
1.723

OPT 1.3B

RoBERTa
Random
POS
4291
379
827

0.812
1.141
0.865

4.657
7.511
3.308

OPT 6.7B

RoBERTa
Random
POS
4878
391
534

0.876
0.884
1.825

7.486
9.426
4.725

Table 7: Soft-NS and Soft-NC results of different token replacing methods. As other Soft-NS and Soft-NC results presented in the paper, results are presented as the log of scores
divided by the random baseline. Maximum steps are set to
3000.

Table 6: Soft-NS and Soft-NC of ReAGent on LongRA, with
different hyperparameters.
Figure 5: Sufficiency and Comprehensiveness scores on different updating steps.
Conclusion

We proposed ReAGent, a model-agnostic feature attribution method for text generation tasks. Our method does not
require fine-tuning, any model modification, or accessing
the internal weights. We conducted extensive experiments
across six decoder-only models of two model families in
different sizes. The results demonstrate that our method is
consistently more faithful than other commonly-used FAs.
In future work, we plan to evaluate our method on different generative models, e.g. encoder-decoder and diffusion
models, and different text generation tasks, e.g. translation
and summarization.

A

When replacing top-k with random tokens or tokens of
the same POS, we found it often takes thousands of steps
to meet the stopping condition, as shown by the average
ŌĆ£StepsŌĆØ in Table 7.9 Figure 5 shows the faithfulness scores
at different steps (evaluating per 50 steps). We see that using RoBERTa predicted tokens to replace, both sufficiency
and comprehensiveness coverage much earlier than Random
and POS replacements, as shown in the black vertical line in
Figure 5. On the other hand, replacing top-k important tokens with random tokens or tokens of the same POS does
not bring consistently higher faithfulness.

B

Replacement tokens

ReAGent measures the predictive likelihood changes after
top-k important tokens are perturbed. The perturbation operation replaces these top-k tokens with RoBERTa predicted
tokens. We also experimented with replacing them with random tokens from the vocabulary (x╠éi = U (V), where V is
the vocabulary and i Ōłł [0, t]), noted as ŌĆ£RandomŌĆØ, and replacing them with random tokens of the same POS, noted as
ŌĆ£POSŌĆØ.
Full Faithfulness Results

In experiments, we set up a maximum updating steps of 5000.

LongRA

TellMeWhy

Wikitext

Model

FAs

Soft-NS

Soft-NC

Soft-NS

Soft-NC

Soft-NS

Soft-NC

GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō354M
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT2ŌĆō1.5B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
GPT-J-6B
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-350M
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-1.3B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B
OPT-6.7B

Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent
Input x Gradient
Integrated Gradients
Gradient Shap
Attention Rollout
Attention Last
Attention
Lime
ReAGent

0.145
0.266
-0.419
-0.125*
-0.098*
-0.137*
-0.404
2.09
-0.648
-0.513*
-0.398*
-0.08
0.17*
-0.034*
0.131*
0.492
0.784
1.923
0.497
0.114*
0.303*
0.68
1.04
1.764
0.152*
-0.067*
-0.681*
0.211*
-0.739*
-0.248*
0.197*
0.932
-0.617
0.618
-0.588*
-0.193*
0.082*
0.008*
-1.032*
0.497
0.365*
0.481*
0.896
-0.523*
-1.048
0.327*
-0.006*
1.039

1.793
1.827
1.867
0.487*
-0.281*
-0.226*
0.168
4.009
2.64
2.165
2.823
-0.008*
0.052*
0.046*
0.366
7.556
1.652
4.885
0.948
0.015*
-0.35*
-0.671*
1.264
5.477
0.49
0.79
0.151
-0.192*
-0.295*
-0.313*
0.491
4.074
0.497
0.858
0.696
0.353
0.321*
-0.092*
0.014
7.104
1.466
0.667
0.122*
0.6
0.839
-0.426*
0.17*
4.188

-0.062
1.293*
1.405
-0.07*
-0.054*
0.53*
0.67*
1.404
-0.256*
-0.011*
-0.183*
0.015*
-0.093*
-0.099*
-0.041*
1.735
0.173*
0.68*
0.945
-0.27*
-0.225*
-2.128
0.398
0.875
-0.879*
-0.915*
-0.481
-0.076*
0.209
-0.412*
-0.834*
0.147
-0.065*
-0.603*
-0.647*
0.064*
-0.256*
-0.331*
-0.452*
0.365
-0.229
-0.175*
-1.214
0.009*
-0.022*
0.641
-0.288*
0.574

3.3
3.152
3.046
0.069*
-0.036*
3.141
3.057
4.483
4.529
4.443
4.186
0.348*
0.533*
4.285
4.257
5.927
3.366
1.89*
4.592
0.694*
-0.337*
3.544
3.278
4.386
0.11
0.019*
-0.474
-0.015*
-0.152*
0.033
-0.029*
1.6
-1.049*
0*
0.002*
0.035
-0.008*
0.8
-4.489*
2.208
-1.478
-0.289*
-0.002*
0.02
0.074
1.166
-4.578*
2.36

-0.32*
0.411*
0.773*
-0.035*
-0.477*
-0.275*
0.865
0.081
0.363*
3.437
0.66*
0.083*
-0.091*
1.479*
1.477
2.378
0.157*
0.838
0.337
-0.039*
-0.292*
-2.056
0.404
0.384
0.281*
-0.17*
0.16*
0.134*
0.275*
0.864
0.156*
0.999
-0.43*
-0.022*
1.132
-0.324*
-0.345*
1.024
-0.462*
1.413
-0.536
0.096*
-0.003*
0.045*
0.024*
0.775
0.323*
1.264

0.725
2.244
0.023*
0.02*
-0.027*
0.511
3.581
1.113
0.752*
3.72
0.339*
0.073*
0.029*
0.295*
5.787
2.931
0.56
2.045
0.337
0.128*
-0.014*
1.288
1.717
1.885
0.131*
0.161*
0.169*
0.032*
-0.037*
0.312
0.202*
0.887
0.193
0.127*
-0.034*
0.333
0.176
1.888
0.183*
1.947
0.576
0.011*
-0.186*
0.681
0.424
2.76
-0.033*
3.13

Table 8: Full Soft-NS and Soft-NC results of different FAs on different Models. For consistency and comparison across data
and models, results are presented as the log of scores divided by the random baseline. Asterisk (*) denotes the case where its
p-value is greater than .05 in the Wilcoxon signed-rank Test, i.e. the score, Soft-NS or Soft-NC, is not significantly different
from the random baseline.

Acknowledgments
We thank Professor Nikolaos Aletras and Dr George
Chrysostomou for their helpful comments, thoughts, and

discussions. We acknowledge IT Services at The University
of Sheffield for the provision of services for High Perfor-

mance Computing.

References
Abnar, S.; and Zuidema, W. 2020. Quantifying Attention
Flow in Transformers. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
4190ŌĆō4197. Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ancona, M.; Ceolini, E.; O╠łztireli, C.; and Gross, M. 2018.
Towards better understanding of gradient-based attribution methods for Deep Neural Networks. In 6th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR),
1711.06104, 0ŌĆō0. Arxiv-Computer Science.
Atanasova, P.; Simonsen, J. G.; Lioma, C.; and Augenstein,
I. 2020. A Diagnostic Study of Explainability Techniques
for Text Classification. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 3256ŌĆō3274. Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Attanasio, G.; Pastor, E.; Di Bonaventura, C.; and Nozza,
D. 2023. ferret: a Framework for Benchmarking Explainers
on Transformers. In Proceedings of the 17th Conference of
the European Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: System Demonstrations, 256ŌĆō266. Dubrovnik,
Croatia: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Bach, S.; Binder, A.; Montavon, G.; Klauschen, F.; Mu╠łller,
K.-R.; and Samek, W. 2015. On pixel-wise explanations for
non-linear classifier decisions by layer-wise relevance propagation. PloS one, 10(7): e0130140.
Bashier, H. K.; Kim, M.-Y.; and Goebel, R. 2020. RANCC:
Rationalizing Neural Networks via Concept Clustering. In
Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, 3214ŌĆō3224. Barcelona, Spain (Online): International Committee on Computational Linguistics.
Bastings, J.; Aziz, W.; and Titov, I. 2019. Interpretable Neural Predictions with Differentiable Binary Variables. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2963ŌĆō2977. Florence, Italy: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Bastings, J.; and Filippova, K. 2020. The elephant in the interpretability room: Why use attention as explanation when
we have saliency methods? In Proceedings of the Third
BlackboxNLP Workshop on Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP, 149ŌĆō155. Online: Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Brown, T.; Mann, B.; Ryder, N.; Subbiah, M.; Kaplan, J. D.;
Dhariwal, P.; Neelakantan, A.; Shyam, P.; Sastry, G.; Askell,
A.; et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33: 1877ŌĆō
1901.
Chrysostomou, G.; and Aletras, N. 2022. Flexible instancespecific rationalization of nlp models. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36,
10545ŌĆō10553.
C─▒╠üfka, O.; and Liutkus, A. 2023. Black-box language model
explanation by context length probing. In Proceedings of the

61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), 1067ŌĆō1079. Toronto,
Canada: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Denil, M.; Demiraj, A.; and De Freitas, N. 2014. Extraction
of salient sentences from labelled documents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1412.6815.
DeYoung, J.; Jain, S.; Rajani, N. F.; Lehman, E.; Xiong, C.;
Socher, R.; and Wallace, B. C. 2020. ERASER: A Benchmark to Evaluate Rationalized NLP Models. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4443ŌĆō4458. Online: Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Ding, S.; and Koehn, P. 2021. Evaluating Saliency Methods for Neural Language Models. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, 5034ŌĆō5052. Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Gehrmann, S.; Adewumi, T.; Aggarwal, K.; Ammanamanchi, P. S.; Anuoluwapo, A.; Bosselut, A.; Chandu, K. R.;
Clinciu, M.; Das, D.; Dhole, K. D.; et al. 2021. The gem
benchmark: Natural language generation, its evaluation and
metrics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.01672.
Grave, E╠ü.; Obozinski, G.; and Bach, F. 2014. A Markovian approach to distributional semantics with application
to semantic compositionality. In Proceedings of COLING
2014, the 25th International Conference on Computational
Linguistics: Technical Papers, 1447ŌĆō1456. Dublin, Ireland:
Dublin City University and Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Hase, P.; Xie, H.; and Bansal, M. 2021. The out-ofdistribution problem in explainability and search methods
for feature importance explanations. Advances in neural information processing systems, 34: 3650ŌĆō3666.
Jacovi, A.; and Goldberg, Y. 2020. Towards Faithfully Interpretable NLP Systems: How Should We Define and Evaluate
Faithfulness? In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4198ŌĆō4205.
Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Jain, S.; Wiegreffe, S.; Pinter, Y.; and Wallace, B. C. 2020.
Learning to Faithfully Rationalize by Construction. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 4459ŌĆō4473. Online: Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Kersten, T.; Wong, H. M.; Jumelet, J.; and Hupkes, D. 2021.
Attention vs non-attention for a Shapley-based explanation
method. In Proceedings of Deep Learning Inside Out (DeeLIO): The 2nd Workshop on Knowledge Extraction and Integration for Deep Learning Architectures, 129ŌĆō139. Online:
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kindermans, P.-J.; Hooker, S.; Adebayo, J.; Alber, M.;
Schu╠łtt, K. T.; Da╠łhne, S.; Erhan, D.; and Kim, B. 2019. The
(un) reliability of saliency methods. Explainable AI: Interpreting, explaining and visualizing deep learning, 267ŌĆō280.
Kindermans, P.-J.; Schu╠łtt, K.; Mu╠łller, K.-R.; and Da╠łhne,
S. 2016. Investigating the influence of noise and distrac-

tors on the interpretation of neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1611.07270.
Kokhlikyan, N.; Miglani, V.; Alsallakh, B.; Martin, M.; and
Reblitz-Richardson, O. 2021. Investigating sanity checks
for saliency maps with image and text classification. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2106.07475.
Lal, Y. K.; Chambers, N.; Mooney, R.; and Balasubramanian, N. 2021. TellMeWhy: A Dataset for Answering WhyQuestions in Narratives. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: ACL-IJCNLP 2021, 596ŌĆō610.
Online: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Lebret, R.; and Collobert, R. 2014. Word Embeddings
through Hellinger PCA. In Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 482ŌĆō490. Gothenburg, Sweden: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Lei, T.; Barzilay, R.; and Jaakkola, T. 2016. Rationalizing
Neural Predictions. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 107ŌĆō117. Austin, Texas: Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Li, J.; Chen, X.; Hovy, E.; and Jurafsky, D. 2015. Visualizing
and understanding neural models in NLP. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.01066.
Lundberg, S. M.; and Lee, S.-I. 2017. A unified approach
to interpreting model predictions. Advances in neural information processing systems, 30.
Manakul, P.; Liusie, A.; and Gales, M. J. 2023. Selfcheckgpt: Zero-resource black-box hallucination detection
for generative large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08896.
Mikolov, T.; Chen, K.; Corrado, G.; and Dean, J. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781.
Nguyen, D. 2018. Comparing Automatic and Human Evaluation of Local Explanations for Text Classification. In
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers),
1069ŌĆō1078. New Orleans, Louisiana: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Nielsen, I. E.; Dera, D.; Rasool, G.; Ramachandran, R. P.;
and Bouaynaya, N. C. 2022. Robust Explainability: A tutorial on gradient-based attribution methods for deep neural
networks. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 39(4): 73ŌĆō84.
O╠ü Se╠üaghdha, D.; and Copestake, A. 2008. Semantic Classification with Distributional Kernels. In Proceedings of the
22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008), 649ŌĆō656. Manchester, UK: Coling 2008
Organizing Committee.
Pham, T.; Bui, T.; Mai, L.; and Nguyen, A. 2022. Double Trouble: How to not Explain a Text ClassifierŌĆÖs Decisions Using Counterfactuals Synthesized by Masked Language Models? In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of the
Asia-Pacific Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 12th International Joint Conference on

Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), 12ŌĆō
31. Online only: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Radford, A.; Wu, J.; Child, R.; Luan, D.; Amodei, D.;
Sutskever, I.; et al. 2019. Language models are unsupervised
multitask learners. OpenAI blog, 1(8): 9.
Ribeiro, M. T.; Singh, S.; and Guestrin, C. 2016. ŌĆØ Why
should i trust you?ŌĆØ Explaining the predictions of any classifier. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining,
1135ŌĆō1144.
Sarti, G.; Feldhus, N.; Sickert, L.; and van der Wal, O. 2023.
Inseq: An Interpretability Toolkit for Sequence Generation
Models. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 3: System Demonstrations), 421ŌĆō435. Toronto, Canada: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Selvaraju, R. R.; Cogswell, M.; Das, A.; Vedantam, R.;
Parikh, D.; and Batra, D. 2017. Grad-cam: Visual explanations from deep networks via gradient-based localization. In
Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision, 618ŌĆō626.
Serrano, S.; and Smith, N. A. 2019. Is Attention Interpretable? In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2931ŌĆō2951. Florence, Italy: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sundararajan, M.; Taly, A.; and Yan, Q. 2017. Axiomatic
attribution for deep networks. In International conference
on machine learning, 3319ŌĆō3328. PMLR.
Vafa, K.; Deng, Y.; Blei, D.; and Rush, A. 2021. Rationales
for Sequential Predictions. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 10314ŌĆō10332. Online and Punta Cana, Dominican
Republic: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Wang, B. 2021. Mesh-Transformer-JAX: Model-Parallel
Implementation of Transformer Language Model with JAX.
https://github.com/kingoflolz/mesh-transformer-jax.
Wang, B.; and Komatsuzaki, A. 2021. GPT-J-6B: A 6
Billion Parameter Autoregressive Language Model. https:
//github.com/kingoflolz/mesh-transformer-jax.
Weeds, J.; Weir, D.; and McCarthy, D. 2004. Characterising
Measures of Lexical Distributional Similarity. In COLING
2004: Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on
Computational Linguistics, 1015ŌĆō1021. Geneva, Switzerland: COLING.
Wolf, T.; Debut, L.; Sanh, V.; Chaumond, J.; Delangue, C.;
Moi, A.; Cistac, P.; Rault, T.; Louf, R.; Funtowicz, M.; Davison, J.; Shleifer, S.; von Platen, P.; Ma, C.; Jernite, Y.; Plu,
J.; Xu, C.; Le Scao, T.; Gugger, S.; Drame, M.; Lhoest, Q.;
and Rush, A. 2020. Transformers: State-of-the-Art Natural
Language Processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations, 38ŌĆō45. Online: Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Zaidan, O.; Eisner, J.; and Piatko, C. 2007. Using ŌĆ£Annotator RationalesŌĆØ to Improve Machine Learning for Text Categorization. In Human Language Technologies 2007: The

Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics; Proceedings of the Main
Conference, 260ŌĆō267. Rochester, New York: Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Zeiler, M. D.; and Fergus, R. 2014. Visualizing and understanding convolutional networks. In Computer VisionŌĆō
ECCV 2014: 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part I 13, 818ŌĆō
833. Springer.
Zhang, S.; Roller, S.; Goyal, N.; Artetxe, M.; Chen, M.;
Chen, S.; Dewan, C.; Diab, M.; Li, X.; Lin, X. V.; Mihaylov, T.; Ott, M.; Shleifer, S.; Shuster, K.; Simig, D.;
Koura, P. S.; Sridhar, A.; Wang, T.; and Zettlemoyer, L.
2022. OPT: Open Pre-trained Transformer Language Models. arXiv:2205.01068.
Zhao, Z.; and Aletras, N. 2023. Incorporating Attribution
Importance for Improving Faithfulness Metrics. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 4732ŌĆō4745.
Toronto, Canada: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhao, Z.; Chrysostomou, G.; Bontcheva, K.; and Aletras, N.
2022. On the Impact of Temporal Concept Drift on Model
Explanations. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, 4039ŌĆō4054. Abu Dhabi,
United Arab Emirates: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhou, Y.; Ribeiro, M. T.; and Shah, J. 2022. ExSum: From
Local Explanations to Model Understanding. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, 5359ŌĆō5378. Seattle, United States:
Association for Computational Linguistics.
